agile tutorial - javatpoint ? scroll to top home java agile jira testng selenium blockchain html css javascript control system selenium jquery projects interview q comment forum training agile tutorial agile tutorial agile methodology advantage & disadvantage agile manifesto agile characteristics agile sdlc project management agile scrum agile kanban agile vs scrum agile daily stand-up definition of done agile design software development product management agile scale release planning iteration planning product backlog agile tools agile crm agile certification interview questions agile interview questions next ? agile tutorial agile tutorial some times called agile methodology. this tutorial contains basic and advanced concepts of agile. our agile tutorial is designed for beginners and professionals. agile is an iterative approach of software development methodology using short iterations of 1 to 4 weeks. using agile methodology, the software is distributed with fastest and fewer changes. the advantages of agile methodology are customer satisfaction by rapid, continuous development and delivery of useful software. prerequisite before learning agile methodology, you should have a basic understanding of software engineering or software development life cycle. audience our agile tutorial is designed to help beginners and professionals. problems we assure that you will not find any problem in this agile tutorial. but if there is any mistake, please post the problem in contact form. next topicagile methodology next ? for videos join our youtube channel: join now feedback send your feedback to [email protected] help others, please share learn latest tutorials splunk spss swagger transact-sql tumblr reactjs regex reinforcement learning r programming rxjs react native python design patterns python pillow python turtle keras preparation aptitude reasoning verbal ability interview questions company questions trending technologies artificial intelligence aws selenium cloud computing hadoop reactjs data science angular 7 blockchain git machine learning devops b.tech / mca dbms data structures daa operating system computer network compiler design computer organization discrete mathematics ethical hacking computer graphics software engineering web technology cyber security automata c programming c++ java .net python programs control system data mining data warehouse javatpoint services javatpoint offers too many high quality services. mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. website designing website development java development php development wordpress graphic designing logo digital marketing on page and off page seo ppc content development corporate training classroom and online training data entry training for college campus javatpoint offers college campus training on core java, advance java, .net, android, hadoop, php, web technology and python. please mail your requirement at [email protected] duration: 1 week to 2 week like/subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter learn tutorialslearn javalearn data structureslearn c programminglearn c++ tutoriallearn c# tutoriallearn php tutoriallearn html tutoriallearn javascript tutoriallearn jquery tutoriallearn spring tutorial our websitesjavatpoint.comhindi100.comlyricsia.comquoteperson.comjobandplacement.com our services website development android development website designing digital marketing summer training industrial training college campus training contact address: g-13, 2nd floor, sec-3 noida, up, 201301, india contact no: 0120-4256464, 9990449935contact us subscribe us privacy policysitemap about me ? copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. all rights reserved. developed by javatpoint.