computer graphics tutorial - javatpoint ? scroll to top home computer fundamentals computer graphics biometrics computer network java html css selenium jquery projects interview q comment forum training computer graphics computer graphics tutorial application of computer graphics interactive and passive graphics graphic systems display processor cathode ray tube (crt) random scan vs raster scan color crt monitors direct view storage tubes flat panel display input-output devices input devices trackball light pen image scanner output devices plotters scan conversion a line scan conversion definition scan converting a point scan converting a straight line dda algorithm bresenham's line algorithm scan conversion circle defining a circle defining a circle using polynomial method defining a circle using polar coordinates method bresenham's circle algorithm midpoint circle algorithm scan converting ellipse scan converting a ellipse polynomial method trignometric method midpoint ellipse algorithm filled area primitives boundary fill algorithm flood fill algorithm scan line polygon fill algorithm 2d transformations introduction of transformation translation scaling rotation reflection shearing matrix representation homogeneous coordinates composite transformation pivot point rotation 2d-viewing window window to viewport co-ordinate transformation zooming panning clipping techniques clipping point clipping line clipping midpoint subdivision algorithm text clipping polygon sutherland-hodgeman polygon clipping weiler-atherton polygon clipping pointing & positioning pointing & positioning techniques elastic or rubber band techniques dragging shading introduction of shading constant intensity shading gouraud shading phong shading animation animation application areas of animation animation functions 3d computer graphics three dimensional graphics three dimensional transformations scaling rotation rotation about arbitrary axis inverse transformations reflection shearing hidden surfaces hidden surface removal back face removal algorithm z-buffer algorithm painter's algorithm scan line algorithm subdivision algorithm 3d modelling system projection projection perspective projection parallel projection programs computer graphics programs mcq computer graphics mcq next ? computer graphics tutorial it is difficult to display an image of any size on the computer screen. this method is simplified by using computer graphics. graphics on the computer are produced by using various algorithms and techniques. this tutorial describes how a rich visual experience is provided to the user by explaining how all these processed by the computer. introduction of computer graphics computer graphics involves technology to access. the process transforms and presents information in a visual form. the role of computer graphics insensible. in today life, computer graphics has now become a common element in user interfaces, t.v. commercial motion pictures. computer graphics is the creation of pictures with the help of a computer. the end product of the computer graphics is a picture it may be a business graph, drawing, and engineering. in computer graphics, two or three-dimensional pictures can be created that are used for research. many hardware devices algorithm has been developing for improving the speed of picture generation with the passes of time. it includes the creation storage of models and image of objects. these models for various fields like engineering, mathematical and so on. today computer graphics is entirely different from the earlier one. it is not possible. it is an interactive user can control the structure of an object of various input devices. definition of computer graphics: it is the use of computers to create and manipulate pictures on a display device. it comprises of software techniques to create, store, modify, represents pictures. why computer graphics used? suppose a shoe manufacturing company want to show the sale of shoes for five years. for this vast amount of information is to store. so a lot of time and memory will be needed. this method will be tough to understand by a common man. in this situation graphics is a better alternative. graphics tools are charts and graphs. using graphs, data can be represented in pictorial form. a picture can be understood easily just with a single look. interactive computer graphics work using the concept of two-way communication between computer users. the computer will receive signals from the input device, and the picture is modified accordingly. picture will be changed quickly when we apply command. computer graphics tutorial index computer graphics tutorial computer graphics tutorial application of computer graphics interactive and passive graphics graphic systems display processor cathode ray tube (crt) random scan vs raster scan color crt monitors direct view storage tubes flat panel display input-output devices input devices trackball light pen image scanner output devices plotters scan conversion a line scan conversion definition scan converting a point scan converting a straight line dda algorithm bresenham's line algorithm scan conversion circle defining a circle defining a circle using polynomial method defining a circle using polar coordinates method bresenham's circle algorithm midpoint circle algorithm scan converting ellipse scan converting a ellipse polynomial method trignometric method midpoint ellipse algorithm filled area primitives boundary fill algorithm flood fill algorithm scan line polygon fill algorithm 2d transformations introduction of transformation translation scaling rotation reflection shearing matrix representation homogeneous coordinates composite transformation pivot point rotation 2d-viewing window window to viewport co-ordinate transformation zooming panning clipping techniques clipping point clipping line clipping midpoint subdivision algorithm text clipping polygon sutherland-hodgeman polygon clipping weiler-atherton polygon clipping pointing & positioning pointing & positioning techniques elastic or rubber band techniques dragging shading introduction of shading constant intensity shading gouraud shading phong shading animation animation application areas of animation animation functions 3d computer graphics three dimensional graphics three dimensional transformations scaling rotation rotation about arbitrary axis inverse transformations reflection shearing hidden surfaces hidden surface removal back face removal algorithm z-buffer algorithm painter's algorithm scan line algorithm subdivision algorithm 3d modelling system projection projection perspective projection parallel projection programs computer graphics programs prerequisite good knowledge and understanding of the concepts of c programming language are necessary for learning the concepts of computer graphics. good understanding about basic mathematics allows us to better understand the concept of computer graphics. audience this tutorial is helpful for the students who are interested in learning the use of graphics on the computer. the tutorial covers the basics of graphics and development of various visuals by the implementation of graphics in the computer. problems we assure that you will not find any problem with this computer graphics tutorial. but if there is any mistake, please post the problem in the contact form. next topicapplication of computer graphics next ? for videos join our youtube channel: join now feedback send your feedback to [email protected] help others, please share learn latest tutorials splunk spss swagger transact-sql tumblr reactjs regex reinforcement learning r programming rxjs react native python design patterns python pillow python turtle keras preparation aptitude reasoning verbal ability interview questions company questions trending technologies artificial intelligence aws selenium cloud computing hadoop reactjs data science angular 7 blockchain git machine learning devops b.tech / mca dbms data structures daa operating system computer network compiler design computer organization discrete mathematics ethical hacking computer graphics software engineering web technology cyber security automata c programming c++ java .net python programs control system data mining data warehouse javatpoint services javatpoint offers too many high quality services. mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. website designing website development java development php development wordpress graphic designing logo digital marketing on page and off page seo ppc content development corporate training classroom and online training data entry training for college campus javatpoint offers college campus training on core java, advance java, .net, android, hadoop, php, web technology and python. please mail your requirement at [email protected] duration: 1 week to 2 week like/subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter learn tutorialslearn javalearn data structureslearn c programminglearn c++ tutoriallearn c# tutoriallearn php tutoriallearn html tutoriallearn javascript tutoriallearn jquery tutoriallearn spring tutorial our websitesjavatpoint.comhindi100.comlyricsia.comquoteperson.comjobandplacement.com our services website development android development website designing digital marketing summer training industrial training college campus training contact address: g-13, 2nd floor, sec-3 noida, up, 201301, india contact no: 0120-4256464, 9990449935contact us subscribe us privacy policysitemap about me ? copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. all rights reserved. developed by javatpoint.