company interview questions and recruitment process (2021) - javatpoint ? scroll to top home interview questions java sql python javascript angular selenium spring boot hr c data structure dbms html c# c++ all interview interview tips job/hr interview competency interview business analyst behavioral interview company interview company interview ibm interview infosys interview capgemini interview cognizant interview wipro interview accenture interview igate interview tcs interview hcl interview adobe interview microsoft interview dxc technology interview ericsson interview exl service interview indiamart interview intuit interview spacex interview sapient interview amazon interview technical interview c interview c++ interview data structure interview linux interview unix interview shell scripting networking interview ccna interview android interview cloud computing hadoop interview testing/qtp interview selenium interview web services interview os interview excel interview seo interview digital marketing python interview django interview pascal interview ruby interview ruby on rails interview memcached interview go interview openstack interview scala interview control systems electrical machines power system digital electronics robotics interview typescript interview swift interview blockchain interview bitcoin interview aws interview informatica interview qa interview react interview git interview j2ee interview deep learning salesforce interview testng interview agile interview machine learning api testing algorithm java design pattern teradata tensorflow linq mainframe laravel jira jcl pytorch etl testing linked list datastage tableau sap abap daa computer graphics data science software engineering power bi xamarin ansible data warehouse ionic devops react native python pandas http interview kali linux interview powershell interview sharepoint interview talend interview microsoft azure interview r interview flutter interview matlab interview es6 interview rpa interview desktop support interview angular 8 interview graphql interview vue.js interview automation anywhere interview ai interview uipath interview blue prism interview ssis interview mobile computing interview itil interview sas interview elasticsearch interview entity framework interview rxjs interview accounting interview electron.js interview knockout js interview top angular interview ias interview question banking interview interview questions for freshers powerpoint interview bpo interview civil engineering interview apache spark interview data mining interview java support interview kubernetes interview web api interview scrum master interview system design interview ssb interview questions teachers interview questions finance interview questions technical support interview active directory interview appium interview cucumber interview full-stack developer servicenow interview nursing interview sales interview microservices interview electrical engineering interview accounts payable interview visa interview vlsi interview autocad interview verilog interview oops interview web developer interview express.js interview cakephp interview yii interview zend framework interview java concurrency interview symfony interview basic interview dynamic programming interview programming interview next.js interview microsoft java interview aem interview svelte.js interview cobol interview cyber security interview sql query interview bgp interview apache hive interview kafka interview embedded c interview pega interview kotlin interview sap mm interview web interview html interview css interview javascript interview jquery interview angularjs interview angular interview angular 7 interview node.js interview ajax interview xml interview dojo interview backbone.js interview ember.js interview xhtml interview xslt interview xpath interview xquery interview xforms interview sass interview coffeescript interview less interview perl interview pure.css interview materialize interview framework7 interview svg interview sap fico interview php interview php interview wordpress interview joomla interview drupal interview magento interview codeigniter interview phalcon interview .net interview .net interview c# interview asp.net interview ado.net interview wcf interview wpf interview silverlight interview f# interview java interview java 1 interview java 2 interview exception & string multithreading collections interview jdbc interview servlet interview jsp interview ejb interview struts interview hibernate interview spring interview spring boot interview spring mvc interview jpa interview maven interview junit interview jsf interview primefaces interview richfaces interview gwt interview jdb interview jogl interview jbpm interview jenkins interview java constructor interview technical architect interview array interview questions database interview dbms interview sql interview pl/sql interview oracle interview mysql interview sql server interview mongodb interview cassandra interview db2 interview access interview sqlite interview couchdb interview neo4j interview mariadb interview pouchdb interview redis interview company interview questions and procedure how to get hired in a company? "how to get hired in a company" is a big question for each candidate, who is looking for a job. so here we will discuss all the common possible points and tips along with various company interview questions, and it will be very helpful for candidates struggling for a good job in a company. there are mainly two ways to enter a company. college placements walk-in interviews college placements: let's start our discussion with the college placements, so it is one of the easiest ways to get placed in a well-known company. companies visit different colleges to hire the right candidates for the right posts. so if you are currently pursuing your graduation/pg/diploma, then you can attend college placement drives mostly from the third-year of graduation. placements are mainly of three types: on-campus placement drive: it is the most common placements done by various companies, as they required enthusiastic and talented candidates for their company. in this placement, companies have tie-ups with the colleges, so they visit colleges, hire good candidates as per their requirements, and offer a job. in on-campus placement, students have good chances to get placed in that company as there is a limited number of students and competition is comparatively easy. note: you can only attend the on-campus placement drive during your college days. off-campus placement drive: off-campus placement drives are mass recruitment organized by well-established companies outside the college campus. as it is off-campus placement, so there is no role of college. in off-campus placements, any candidate(with eligibility criteria) from any college can apply and attend the drive. one can attend off-campus placements during college or after college. off-campus placements are comparatively tough as competition becomes very high. pool-campus placement drive: in pool-campus placement drives more than one college affiliated from the same university conduct placement drive, where students more than one college can attend it and can get placed. walk-in interview: nowadays walk-in interviews are the best way to get placed in that company for the candidates who were not able to get placed during their graduation, or one who is already placed and want to switch the job. there can be various interview rounds, and once you clear all rounds the company will provide a job as per your skills. preparation for an interview: good preparation is essential for an interview whether you are giving it on your campus placement drive or for walk-in interview. steps for interview preparation: build a strong resume the very first step for applying for an interview is to build a strong resume. because a good resume helps you to get closer to your dream job. a good resume increases your chances to get hired for that job. it will help you to get an interview and creating a positive impression on the interviewer. following are some basic points to build a strong resume: make it short, easy, and professional. mention your skills, strengths, and experiences (job experience or internship experience). avoid any mistake in your resume do not write paragraphs in your resume, instead use bullets or pointers. the font size of the resume should be proper(between 11-12 arial). do not mention any lie on your resume. prepare for cracking written/aptitude test before going for a face-to-face interview with the company representative you need to clear some rounds, and a written aptitude test is one of them. it is also known as screening round. must have domain-specific technical skills: before attending an interview, prepare yourself for technical skills, as a company always looks for a skilled candidate. so when you are applying for a job, firstly check the requirements of the company and prepare yourself accordingly. prepare with good communication skills. a communication skill plays an important role during an interview. you must be able to confidently communicate with the interviewer to get placed in that company. you might have strong technical skills but unless you can't explain that skill you cannot get the job. recruitment procedure of a company: now let's proceed on what is the complete recruitment process of a company. here we will discuss a common procedure which may differ slightly for some companies. it is a procedure which is common for most of the top it companies like hcl, wipro, adobe, accenture, cognizant, capgemini, etc. the complete recruitment process of a company goes through various rounds candidate goes for next round after clearing the current round, these are given below: written/aptitude test technical interview round hr interview round 1. written/aptitude test: the first round for most of the companies is written round. this round is screening round and easy to crack. it consists of mainly four sections: english proficiency quantitative aptitude verbal reasoning technical written test each section contains approximately 20-30 number of multiple choice questions which you need to complete in a given time limit. you can prepare for this round from rs. agrawal book, or from following links: aptitude/quantitative reasoning verbal ability 2. technical interview round: the next round is a technical interview. this is a face-to-face interview round, in which candidates are selected on the basis of their technical skills. in this round, candidates can be asked questions on various programming languages such as c, c++, java, html, javascript, data-structure, etc. following are some links from where you can prepare for this round: c interview questions c++ interview questions data structure interview questions networking interview questions core java interview questions 3. hr interview round: the hr interview round is the last round where candidates are judged on the basis of their communication skills, soft skills, confidence level, etc. this is easy but an important round because it can easily get you in the company or may be disqualified from that company so a positive attitude and confidence are two key points for cracking this round. there are some mostly asked hr questions which you can learn from the below link: job interview questions company interview questions: following are the interview question links for top it companies like adobe, accenture, igate, ibm, etc. ibm interview questions infosys interview questions capgemini interview questions cognizant interview questions wipro interview questions accenture interview questions igate interview questions tcs interview questions hcl interview questions adobe interview questions microsoft interview questions dxc technology interview questions ericsson interview questions exl service interview questions indiamart interview questions intuit interview questions spacex interview questions sapient interview questions you may also like: java interview questions sql interview questions python interview questions javascript interview questions angular interview questions selenium interview questions spring boot interview questions hr interview questions c programming interview questions c++ interview questions data structure interview questions dbms interview questions html interview questions ias interview questions manual testing interview questions oops interview questions .net interview questions c# interview questions reactjs interview questions networking interview questions php interview questions css interview questions node.js interview questions spring interview questions hibernate interview questions aws interview questions accounting interview questions learn latest tutorials splunk spss swagger transact-sql tumblr reactjs regex reinforcement learning r programming rxjs react native python design patterns python pillow python turtle keras preparation aptitude reasoning verbal ability interview questions company questions trending technologies artificial intelligence aws selenium cloud computing hadoop reactjs data science angular 7 blockchain git machine learning devops b.tech / mca dbms data structures daa operating system computer network compiler design computer organization discrete mathematics ethical hacking computer graphics software engineering web technology cyber security automata c programming c++ java .net python programs control system data mining data warehouse javatpoint services javatpoint offers too many high quality services. mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. website designing website development java development php development wordpress graphic designing logo digital marketing on page and off page seo ppc content development corporate training classroom and online training data entry training for college campus javatpoint offers college campus training on core java, advance java, .net, android, hadoop, php, web technology and python. please mail your requirement at [email protected] duration: 1 week to 2 week like/subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter learn tutorialslearn javalearn data structureslearn c programminglearn c++ tutoriallearn c# tutoriallearn php tutoriallearn html tutoriallearn javascript tutoriallearn jquery tutoriallearn spring tutorial our websitesjavatpoint.comhindi100.comlyricsia.comquoteperson.comjobandplacement.com our services website development android development website designing digital marketing summer training industrial training college campus training contact address: g-13, 2nd floor, sec-3 noida, up, 201301, india contact no: 0120-4256464, 9990449935contact us subscribe us privacy policysitemap about me ? copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. all rights reserved. developed by javatpoint.