computer network tutorial - javatpoint ? scroll to top home computer fundamentals computer network control system java html css selenium javascript jquery quiz projects interview q comment forum training computer network tutorial introduction features architecture components computer network types topologies transmission modes models models osi model tcp/ip model physical layer digital transmission transmission media guided media unguided media multiplexing switching switching modes switching techniques data link layer data link layer error detection error correction data link controls network layer network layer network addressing routing network layer protocols routing algorithm routing algorithm distance vector link state routing transport layer transport layer transport layer protocols application layer application layer client & server model application protocols dns ftp telnet smtp snmp http network security security privacy digital signature pgp misc what is router osi vs tcp/ip tcp vs udp tcp tcp port ipv4 vs ipv6 arp packet format arp table working of arp ftp client ftp commands ftp server i2p protocol sliding window protocol snmp spi protocol ip arp commands arp request arp - address resolution protocol arp and its types tcp retransmission can protocol http status codes http vs https rip protocol udp protocol icmp protocol mqtt protocol ospf protocol stop & wait protocol imap protocol pop protocol cifs das dimm iscsi nas nfs nvme san bgp go-back-n arq rj cable connection-oriented vs connectionless service cdma vs gsm what is mac address modem vs router switch vs router usb 2.0 vs usb 3.0 csma ca vs csma cd multiple access protocols uri vs url imap vs. pop3 ssh meaning utp vs stp status code 400 mime protocol ip address what is a proxy server and how does it work how to set up and use a proxy server what is network security www is based on which model proxy server list fundamentals of computer networking mcq computer network mcq computer network mcq part2 interview questions networking questions next ? computer network tutorial computer network tutorial provides basic and advanced concepts of data communication & networks (dcn). our computer networking tutorial is designed for beginners and professionals. our computer network tutorial includes all topics of computer network such as introduction, features, types of computer network, architecture, hardware, software, internet, intranet, website, lan, wan, etc. what is computer network? a computer network is a set of devices connected through links. a node can be computer, printer, or any other device capable of sending or receiving the data. the links connecting the nodes are known as communication channels. computer network uses distributed processing in which task is divided among several computers. instead, a single computer handles an entire task, each separate computer handles a subset. following are the advantages of distributed processing: security: it provides limited interaction that a user can have with the entire system. for example, a bank allows the users to access their own accounts through an atm without allowing them to access the bank's entire database. faster problem solving: multiple computers can solve the problem faster than a single machine working alone. security through redundancy: multiple computers running the same program at the same time can provide the security through redundancy. for example, if four computers run the same program and any computer has a hardware error, then other computers can override it. computer network tutorial index computer network computer network tutorial introduction features architecture components computer network types topologies transmission modes models models osi model tcp/ip model physical layer digital transmission transmission media guided media unguided media multiplexing multiplexing techniques switching switching modes switching techniques data link layer data link layer error detection error correction data link controls network layer network layer network addressing routing network layer protocols routing algorithm routing algorithm distance vector link state routing transport layer transport layer transport layer protocols application layer application layer client and server model application protocols dns ftp telnet smtp snmp http computer network security security privacy digital signature pgp prerequisite there is nothing specific prerequisite for learning computer network. audience our computer network tutorial is designed to help beginners and professionals. problems we assure that you will not find any problem in this computer network tutorial. but if there is any mistake, please post the problem in contact form. next topicintroduction next ? for videos join our youtube channel: join now feedback send your feedback to [email protected] help others, please share learn latest tutorials splunk spss swagger transact-sql tumblr reactjs regex reinforcement learning r programming rxjs react native python design patterns python pillow python turtle keras preparation aptitude reasoning verbal ability interview questions company questions trending technologies artificial intelligence aws selenium cloud computing hadoop reactjs data science angular 7 blockchain git machine learning devops b.tech / mca dbms data structures daa operating system computer network compiler design computer organization discrete mathematics ethical hacking computer graphics software engineering web technology cyber security automata c programming c++ java .net python programs control system data mining data warehouse javatpoint services javatpoint offers too many high quality services. mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. website designing website development java development php development wordpress graphic designing logo digital marketing on page and off page seo ppc content development corporate training classroom and online training data entry training for college campus javatpoint offers college campus training on core java, advance java, .net, android, hadoop, php, web technology and python. please mail your requirement at [email protected] duration: 1 week to 2 week like/subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter learn tutorialslearn javalearn data structureslearn c programminglearn c++ tutoriallearn c# tutoriallearn php tutoriallearn html tutoriallearn javascript tutoriallearn jquery tutoriallearn spring tutorial our websitesjavatpoint.comhindi100.comlyricsia.comquoteperson.comjobandplacement.com our services website development android development website designing digital marketing summer training industrial training college campus training contact address: g-13, 2nd floor, sec-3 noida, up, 201301, india contact no: 0120-4256464, 9990449935contact us subscribe us privacy policysitemap about me ? copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. all rights reserved. developed by javatpoint.