joomla tutorial - javatpoint ? scroll to top home php joomla mysql html css xml java wordpress c bootstrap javascript jquery quiz projects interview q comment forum training joomla tutorial joomla tutorial joomla history joomla features joomla architecture installaion on windows installation on linux joomla login joomla control panel joomla taskbar joomla toolbar joomla menus joomla content menu joomla components menu joomla extensions menu joomla help menu joomla menus joomla create menus adding menu items modify menu items creating submenus joomla modules create modules module types joomla templates templates template manager joomla advanced category management adding articles adding banners adding contacts adding forum private messages & emails extension & plugin manager website backup user settings joomla debug global settings site settings system settings server settings media settings differences joomla vs wordpress joomla vs drupal miscellaneous joomla hosting joomla k2 joomla update interview questions joomla interview next ? joomla tutorial joomla is an open-source content management system (cms), which is used to build beautiful web sites and powerful online applications. it is written in php and developed by open source matters, inc. it is built on a model-view-controller web application framework, which can be used independently of the cms. it is free and uses object-oriented programming and software design patterns. it uses mysql, ms sql, or postgresql database to store the data. our tutorial will include all the basic and advanced topics of joomla that will guide you on how to create websites with ease. this tutorial is separated into different parts such as joomla basics, joomla menus, joomla modules, joomla global settings, and joomla advanced containing all the related topics with the screenshots and examples. what is joomla? joomla is said to be one of the best open-source content management systems (cms) that can be used to build powerful websites and online applications. it is free, extendable, and separated into front-end and back-end templates (runs from administrator side). it is built on a model-view-controller framework which can be used independently of the cms. joomla is a platform which is based on php and mysql. joomla also supports third-party extensions and templates, which allow us to make further customization to meet specific requirements. it is open to anyone who wants to develop the extensions and templates. what is a cms (content management system)? a content management system is a web-based application that keeps track of the entire data (i.e., text, photos, music, document, etc.). it includes the management that refers to creating, editing, archiving, publishing, collaborating on, reporting, distributing website content, data, and information. why use joomla? there are basically three most popular cmss available, i.e., joomla, drupal, and wordpress. other than that, there are endless other less popular cmss available. the differences between them may be quite significant, although they all are basically developed to do the same thing. their main purpose is to help you create and manage your website. joomla is the perfect tool that is easy to install and set up. there is no need to be an advanced user to use joomla. one can use it with little knowledge of html and css. there are thousands of extensions available in the joomla extension directory, which can be applied to enhance the functionality. joomla also contains a powerful application framework that helps the developers to create sophisticated add-ons that increase the power of joomla into virtually unlimited directions. the core joomla framework helps developers to quickly and easily build: inventory control systems data reporting tools application bridges custom product catalogs integrated e-commerce systems complex business directories reservation systems communication tools applications of joomla joomla can be used for: corporate websites or portals, intranets, and extranets small business websites online magazines, newspapers, and publications e-commerce websites and online reservations government, non-profit and organizational websites community-based, school, college websites or portals personal blogs or family homepages advantages of joomla it is a freely available open-source platform. it is quite simple to install and set up. it uses wysiwyg (what you see is what you get) editor, which helps to edit the content very easily. almost all the browsers support it by default. it has an easy menu creation tool. it provides several templates and themes which are very flexible to use. it can be migrated to any server, and most of them work with any database. it has broad community support where it is easy to ask questions and receive the solutions. it is based on php scripts, and so the compatibility issues will be limited while using its framework. it ensures the security and safety of the data content and does not allow to edit the data without administrator privileges. disadvantages of joomla it has a compatibility issue when several modules, extensions, and plugins are installed simultaneously. some of the important plugins and modules for joomla are paid ones. however, it has many modules, add-ons, and templates, and it is still limited for more advanced users. it is quite complex and makes it difficult to get custom designs without developer experience. it is not much seo (search engine optimization) friendly. it makes websites heavy to load and run, resulting in more time. prerequisite before you start this tutorial, we are assuming that you have the basic knowledge of html and css. if you are not aware of the basic rules of html and css, then we recommend you to go through our tutorials on html and css. audience this tutorial has been prepared to help both beginners and professionals. problem we assure you that you will not find any problem in this tutorial. but if you find any mistake, please post the problem in the contact form so that we can update it as soon as possible. next topichistory of joomla next ? for videos join our youtube channel: join now feedback send your feedback to [email protected] help others, please share learn latest tutorials splunk spss swagger transact-sql tumblr reactjs regex reinforcement learning r programming rxjs react native python design patterns python pillow python turtle keras preparation aptitude reasoning verbal ability interview questions company questions trending technologies artificial intelligence aws selenium cloud computing hadoop reactjs data science angular 7 blockchain git machine learning devops b.tech / mca dbms data structures daa operating system computer network compiler design computer organization discrete mathematics ethical hacking computer graphics software engineering web technology cyber security automata c programming c++ java .net python programs control system data mining data warehouse javatpoint services javatpoint offers too many high quality services. mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. website designing website development java development php development wordpress graphic designing logo digital marketing on page and off page seo ppc content development corporate training classroom and online training data entry training for college campus javatpoint offers college campus training on core java, advance java, .net, android, hadoop, php, web technology and python. please mail your requirement at [email protected] duration: 1 week to 2 week like/subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter learn tutorialslearn javalearn data structureslearn c programminglearn c++ tutoriallearn c# tutoriallearn php tutoriallearn html tutoriallearn javascript tutoriallearn jquery tutoriallearn spring tutorial our websitesjavatpoint.comhindi100.comlyricsia.comquoteperson.comjobandplacement.com our services website development android development website designing digital marketing summer training industrial training college campus training contact address: g-13, 2nd floor, sec-3 noida, up, 201301, india contact no: 0120-4256464, 9990449935contact us subscribe us privacy policysitemap about me ? copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. all rights reserved. developed by javatpoint.