laravel tutorial - javatpoint ? scroll to top home laravel php mysql wordpress magento 2 codeigniter yii html css javascript jquery python java sql interview q laravel tutorial laravel tutorial features of laravel history of laravel installation on windows xampp installation composer installation git installation creating first laravel project laravel application structure laravel routing laravel basic routing routing parameters laravel named routes laravel middleware laravel route groups laravel controllers laravel controllers routing controllers resource controllers controller middleware laravel views laravel views passing data to views laravel blade template blade template template inheritance laravel forms laravel migration laravel migration migration structure generating migrations migration commands laravel database laravel database laravel eloquent laravel relationship laravel tinker laravel crud misc. laravel validation laravel file upload laravel sessions laravel vs codeigniter laravel vs django laravel vs symfony laravel vs wordpress install and use font awesome icons in laravel delete multiple records using checkbox in laravel import and export csv file in laravel 5.8 generate pdf from html view file and download using dompdf in laravel implement flash message with laravel 5.7 laravel vuejs file upload using vue-dropzone example use elasticsearch from scratch in laravel 5 elasticsearch with pagination in laravel 5 laravel yajra datatables export to excel csv button check if array is empty in blade using laravel delete all records from table in laravel eloquent laravel 5.8 email verification example import export to excel and csv using maatwebsite in laravel 5 send email with laravel 7/6 using markdown mailable class laravel vue js axios post request add charts in laravel using chart js mongodb crud in laravel create url shortener in laravel laravel 5.7 modular structure application laravel google oauth authentication using socialite package new notification system using laravel 5.7 laravel notification alert using bootstrap notify plugin notification message popup using toastr js plugin in laravel laravel mailgun setup interview questions laravel interview questions next ? laravel tutorial laravel tutorial provides basic and advanced concepts. our laravel tutorial is designed for beginners and professionals. laravel is an open-source php framework. it also offers the rich set of functionalities that incorporates the basic features of php frameworks such as codelgniter, yii, and other programming languages like ruby on rails. our laravel tutorial includes all the topics such as introduction, history of laravel, installation, laravel routes, laravel controllers, laravel views, etc. what is laravel? laravel is a php framework that uses the mvc architecture. where, framework: it is the collection of methods, classes, or files that the programmer uses, and they can also extend its functionality by using their code. architecture: it is the specific design pattern that the framework follows. laravel is following the mvc architecture. let's first understand the mvc architecture. mvc is divided into three letters shown below: m: 'm' stands for model. a model is a class that deals with a database. for example, if we have users in an application then we will have users model that deals with a database to query the table of users if we have users model, then we will also have a users table. we conclude from the example that the model is going to have a table for that specific model. v: 'v' stands for view. a view is a class that deals with an html. everything that we can see on the application in the browser is the view or the representation. c: 'c' stands for controller. a controller is the middle-man that deals with both model and view. a controller is the class that retrieves the data from the model and sends the data to the view class. laravel is an open-source php framework. it also offers the rich set of functionalities that incorporates the basic features of php frameworks such as codelgniter, yii, and other programming languages like ruby on rails. advantages of laravel following are some advantages of laravel: creating authorization and authentication systems every owner of the web application makes sure that unauthorized users do not access secured or paid resources. it provides a simple way of implementing authentication. it also provides a simple way of organizing the authorization logic and control access to resources. integration with tools laravel is integrated with many tools that build a faster app. it is not only necessary to build the app but also to create a faster app. integration with the caching back end is one of the major steps to improve the performance of a web app. laravel is integrated with some popular cache back ends such as redis, and memcached. mail service integration laravel is integrated with the mail service. this service is used to send notifications to the user's emails. it provides a clean and simple api that allows you to send the email quickly through a local or cloud-based service of your choice. handling exception and configuration error handling exception and configuration errors are the major factors on the app's usability. the manners in which the software app handles the errors have a huge impact on the user's satisfaction and the app's usability. the organization does not want to lose their customers, so for them, laravel is the best choice. in laravel, error and exception handling is configured in the new laravel project. automation testing work testing a product is very important to make sure that the software runs without any errors, bugs, and crashes. we know that automation testing is less time-consuming than manual testing, so automation testing is preferred over the manual testing. laravel is developed with testing in mind. separation of business logic code from presentation code the separation between business logic code and presentation code allows the html layout designers to change the look without interacting with the developers. a bug can be resolved by the developers faster if the separation is provided between the business logic code and presentation code. we know that laravel follows the mvc architecture, so separation is already done. fixing most common technical vulnerabilities the security vulnerability is the most important example in web application development. an american organization, i.e., owasp foundation, defines the most important security vulnerabilities such as sql injection, cross-site request forgery, cross-site scripting, etc. developers need to consider these vulnerabilities and fix them before delivery. laravel is a secure framework as it protects the web application against all the security vulnerabilities. scheduling tasks configuration and management the web app requires some task scheduling mechanism to perform the tasks in time for example, when to send out the emails to the subscribers or when to clean up the database tables at the end of the day. to schedule the tasks, developers need first to create the cron entry for each task, but laravel command scheduler defines a command schedule which requires a single entry on the server. prerequisite before learning laravel, you should have a basic understanding of php. audience our laravel tutorial is designed to help beginners and professionals. problems we assure that you will not find any problem in this laravel tutorial. but if there is any mistake, please post the problem in contact form. next topicfeatures of laravel next ? for videos join our youtube channel: join now feedback send your feedback to [email protected] help others, please share learn latest tutorials splunk spss swagger transact-sql tumblr reactjs regex reinforcement learning r programming rxjs react native python design patterns python pillow python turtle keras preparation aptitude reasoning verbal ability interview questions company questions trending technologies artificial intelligence aws selenium cloud computing hadoop reactjs data science angular 7 blockchain git machine learning devops b.tech / mca dbms data structures daa operating system computer network compiler design computer organization discrete mathematics ethical hacking computer graphics software engineering web technology cyber security automata c programming c++ java .net python programs control system data mining data warehouse javatpoint services javatpoint offers too many high quality services. mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. website designing website development java development php development wordpress graphic designing logo digital marketing on page and off page seo ppc content development corporate training classroom and online training data entry training for college campus javatpoint offers college campus training on core java, advance java, .net, android, hadoop, php, web technology and python. please mail your requirement at [email protected] duration: 1 week to 2 week like/subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter learn tutorialslearn javalearn data structureslearn c programminglearn c++ tutoriallearn c# tutoriallearn php tutoriallearn html tutoriallearn javascript tutoriallearn jquery tutoriallearn spring tutorial our websitesjavatpoint.comhindi100.comlyricsia.comquoteperson.comjobandplacement.com our services website development android development website designing digital marketing summer training industrial training college campus training contact address: g-13, 2nd floor, sec-3 noida, up, 201301, india contact no: 0120-4256464, 9990449935contact us subscribe us privacy policysitemap about me ? copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. all rights reserved. developed by javatpoint.