learn react native tutorial - javatpoint ? scroll to top home react native typescript javascript framework7 java coa html css selenium servlet jsp jquery quiz projects interview q comment react native tutorial react native tutorial environment setup first app hello world react native view react native state react native props react native style height and width react native button layout and flexbox positioning element with flex react native scrollview react native listview react native flatlist react native sectionlist react native touchables react native textinput activityindicator react native picker react native statusbar react native switch react native webview progressbarandroid progressbar with animated guides react native animation react native image apis react native alert react native geolocation third party libraries navigation react native navigation configuring header bar moving between screens passing value b/w screen tab navigation adding icons at bottom of tab navigation create material bottom tab navigator create material top tab navigator drawer navigation storage asyncstorage asyncstorage methods misc react native google maps react native modal react native vector icons react native splash screen react native vs. ionic react native vs. xamarin react native vs flutter react native vs react react native vs swift next ? react native tutorial react native tutorial provides basic and advanced concepts of discrete mathematics. our react native tutorial is designed for beginners and professionals both. react native is a javascript framework which is used to develop mobile applications for ios and android. our react native tutorial includes all the topics which help to learn typescript. these are react native introduction, environment setup, first app hello world, state, flexbox, height and width, textinput etc. what is react native? react native is a javascript framework used for developing a real, native mobile application for ios and android. it uses only javascript to build a mobile application. it is like react, which uses native component rather than using web components as building blocks. note: react native is a javascript framework whereas reactjs (react.js) is a javascript library. react native is based on react, javascript library of facebook, and xml-esque markup (jsx) for developing the user interface. it targets the mobile platform rather than the browser. what are react native apps? react native apps are not web application. they are running on a mobile device, and it does not load over the browser. it is also not a hybrid app that builds over ionic, phone gap, etc. that runs over webview component. react native apps are the real native app, the javascript code stays as javascript, and they run in some extra thread by the compiled app. the user interface and everything are compiled to native code. history of react native facebook develops the react native in 2013 for their internal project hackathon. later on, it was released publically in january 2015 as react.js, and in march 2015, facebook announced that react native is open and available on github. react native was initially developed for the ios application. however, recently it also supports the android operating system. advantages of react native there are several advantages of react native for building mobile applications. some of them are given below: cross-platform usage: provide facility of "learn once write everywhere", it works for both platform android as well ios devices. class performance: the code written in react native are compiled into native code, which enables it for both operating systems as well as it functions in the same way on both the platforms. javascript: the javascript knowledge is used to build native mobile apps. community: the large community of react and react native around helps us to find any answer we require. hot reloading: making a few changes in the code of your app will be immediately visible during development. if business logic is changed, its reflection is live reloaded on screen. improving with time: some features of ios and android are still not supported, and the community is always inventing the best practices. native components: we will need to write some platform specific code if we want to create native functionality which is not designed yet. existence is uncertain: as the facebook develop this framework, its presence is uncertain since it keeps all the rights to kill off the project anytime. as the popularity of react native rises, it is unlikely to happen. prerequisite before learning react native, you must have the knowledge of oops concept and javascript. audience we have developed this react native tutorial for beginners and professionals both. problems we assure you that you will not find any problem in our react native tutorial. but, if you find any mistake, you can post it in our comment section. next topicreact native environment setup next ? for videos join our youtube channel: join now feedback send your feedback to [email protected] help others, please share learn latest tutorials splunk spss swagger transact-sql tumblr reactjs regex reinforcement learning r programming rxjs react native python design patterns python pillow python turtle keras preparation aptitude reasoning verbal ability interview questions company questions trending technologies artificial intelligence aws selenium cloud computing hadoop reactjs data science angular 7 blockchain git machine learning devops b.tech / mca dbms data structures daa operating system computer network compiler design computer organization discrete mathematics ethical hacking computer graphics software engineering web technology cyber security automata c programming c++ java .net python programs control system data mining data warehouse javatpoint services javatpoint offers too many high quality services. mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. website designing website development java development php development wordpress graphic designing logo digital marketing on page and off page seo ppc content development corporate training classroom and online training data entry training for college campus javatpoint offers college campus training on core java, advance java, .net, android, hadoop, php, web technology and python. please mail your requirement at [email protected] duration: 1 week to 2 week like/subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter learn tutorialslearn javalearn data structureslearn c programminglearn c++ tutoriallearn c# tutoriallearn php tutoriallearn html tutoriallearn javascript tutoriallearn jquery tutoriallearn spring tutorial our websitesjavatpoint.comhindi100.comlyricsia.comquoteperson.comjobandplacement.com our services website development android development website designing digital marketing summer training industrial training college campus training contact address: g-13, 2nd floor, sec-3 noida, up, 201301, india contact no: 0120-4256464, 9990449935contact us subscribe us privacy policysitemap about me ? copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. all rights reserved. developed by javatpoint.