learn software testing tutorial - javatpoint ? scroll to top home software testing selenium appium jmeter junit postman jira testng soapui uipath rpa qa selenium python interview q software testing tutorial software testing principles software development life cycle software testing life cycle types of software testing levels of testing test maturity model sdlc models waterfall model spiral model hybrid model prototype model v-model types of testing manual testing automation testing types of manual white box testing black box testing grey box testing white box techniques data flow testing control flow testing branch coverage testing statement coverage testing decision coverage testing black box techniques decision table all-pair testing cause-effect testing state transition use case types of black box functional testing non-functional testing types of functional unit testing integration testing system testing types of non-functional performance testing usability testing compatibility testing test case development testing documentation test scenario test case testing techniques error guessing equivalence portioning boundary value analysis test management test plan test case review process requirement traceability matrix defect tracking bug in software testing bug life cycle severity & priority test environment defect management process other types of testing regression testing smoke testing sanity testing static testing dynamic testing load testing stress testing recovery testing exploratory testing visual testing acceptance testing alpha testing beta testing database testing mainframe testing adhoc testing globalization testing mutation testing security testing accessibility testing structural testing volume testing scalability testing stability testing spike testing negative testing positive testing endurance testing reliability testing monkey testing agile testing component testing gui testing test strategy software testing tools software testing tools test management tools defect/bug tracking tools automation testing tools performance testing tools cross-browser testing tools integration testing tools unit testing tools mobile testing tools gui testing tools security testing tools penetration testing tools differences automation testing vs manual testing load testing vs stress testing smoke testing vs sanity testing system testing vs acceptance testing quality assurance vs quality control static testing vs dynamic testing verification vs validation testing alpha testing vs beta testing black box vs. white box vs. grey box testing globalization testing vs localization testing test case vs test scenarios test plan vs test strategy boundary value analysis vs equivalence partitioning sdlc vs stlc bug vs defect vs error vs fault vs failure testing vs debugging frontend testing vs backend testing hld vs lld brs vs srs positive testing vs negative testing top-down vs bottom-up integration testing use case vs test case monkey testing vs gorilla testing stubs vs drivers component testing vs unit testing software testing vs embedded testing gui testing vs usability testing sdet vs tester desktop application testing vs client-server application testing vs web application testing software testing mcq software testing mcq software testing mcq part 2 interview questions software testing interview next ? software testing tutorial software testing tutorial provides basic and advanced concepts of software testing. our software testing tutorial is designed for beginners and professionals. software testing is widely used technology because it is compulsory to test each and every software before deployment. our software testing tutorial includes all topics of software testing such as methods such as black box testing, white box testing, visual box testing and gray box testing. levels such as unit testing, integration testing, regression testing, functional testing. system testing, acceptance testing, alpha testing, beta testing, non-functional testing, security testing, portability testing. what is software testing software testing is a process of identifying the correctness of software by considering its all attributes (reliability, scalability, portability, re-usability, usability) and evaluating the execution of software components to find the software bugs or errors or defects. software testing provides an independent view and objective of the software and gives surety of fitness of the software. it involves testing of all components under the required services to confirm that whether it is satisfying the specified requirements or not. the process is also providing the client with information about the quality of the software. testing is mandatory because it will be a dangerous situation if the software fails any of time due to lack of testing. so, without testing software cannot be deployed to the end user. what is testing testing is a group of techniques to determine the correctness of the application under the predefined script but, testing cannot find all the defect of application. the main intent of testing is to detect failures of the application so that failures can be discovered and corrected. it does not demonstrate that a product functions properly under all conditions but only that it is not working in some specific conditions. testing furnishes comparison that compares the behavior and state of software against mechanisms because the problem can be recognized by the mechanism. the mechanism may include past versions of the same specified product, comparable products, and interfaces of expected purpose, relevant standards, or other criteria but not limited up to these. testing includes an examination of code and also the execution of code in various environments, conditions as well as all the examining aspects of the code. in the current scenario of software development, a testing team may be separate from the development team so that information derived from testing can be used to correct the process of software development. the success of software depends upon acceptance of its targeted audience, easy graphical user interface, strong functionality load test, etc. for example, the audience of banking is totally different from the audience of a video game. therefore, when an organization develops a software product, it can assess whether the software product will be beneficial to its purchasers and other audience. type of software testing we have various types of testing available in the market, which are used to test the application or the software. with the help of below image, we can easily understand the type of software testing: manual testing the process of checking the functionality of an application as per the customer needs without taking any help of automation tools is known as manual testing. while performing the manual testing on any application, we do not need any specific knowledge of any testing tool, rather than have a proper understanding of the product so we can easily prepare the test document. manual testing can be further divided into three types of testing, which are as follows: white box testing black box testing gray box testing for more information about manual testing, refers to the below link: https://www.javatpoint.com/manual-testing automation testing automation testing is a process of converting any manual test cases into the test scripts with the help of automation tools, or any programming language is known as automation testing. with the help of automation testing, we can enhance the speed of our test execution because here, we do not require any human efforts. we need to write a test script and execute those scripts. for more information about manual testing, refers to the below link: https://www.javatpoint.com/automation-testing prerequisite before learning software testing, you should have basic knowledge of basic computer functionality, basic mathematics, computer language, and logical operators. audience our software testing tutorial is designed for beginners and professionals. problems we assure that you will not find any problem in this software testing tutorial. but if there is any mistake, please post the problem in contact form. next topicsoftware testing principles next ? for videos join our youtube channel: join now feedback send your feedback to [email protected] help others, please share learn latest tutorials splunk spss swagger transact-sql tumblr reactjs regex reinforcement learning r programming rxjs react native python design patterns python pillow python turtle keras preparation aptitude reasoning verbal ability interview questions company questions trending technologies artificial intelligence aws selenium cloud computing hadoop reactjs data science angular 7 blockchain git machine learning devops b.tech / mca dbms data structures daa operating system computer network compiler design computer organization discrete mathematics ethical hacking computer graphics software engineering web technology cyber security automata c programming c++ java .net python programs control system data mining data warehouse javatpoint services javatpoint offers too many high quality services. mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. website designing website development java development php development wordpress graphic designing logo digital marketing on page and off page seo ppc content development corporate training classroom and online training data entry training for college campus javatpoint offers college campus training on core java, advance java, .net, android, hadoop, php, web technology and python. please mail your requirement at [email protected] duration: 1 week to 2 week like/subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter learn tutorialslearn javalearn data structureslearn c programminglearn c++ tutoriallearn c# tutoriallearn php tutoriallearn html tutoriallearn javascript tutoriallearn jquery tutoriallearn spring tutorial our websitesjavatpoint.comhindi100.comlyricsia.comquoteperson.comjobandplacement.com our services website development android development website designing digital marketing summer training industrial training college campus training contact address: g-13, 2nd floor, sec-3 noida, up, 201301, india contact no: 0120-4256464, 9990449935contact us subscribe us privacy policysitemap about me ? copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. all rights reserved. developed by javatpoint.