learn cloud computing tutorial - javatpoint ? scroll to top home c java sql cloud computing android javascript ajax design pattern quiz projects interview q comment forum cloud tutorial cloud computing advantage & disadvantage history of cloud cloud computing architecture cloud computing technologies cloud computing vs grid computing how cloud work cloud computing applications security risks of cloud computing types of cloud types of cloud public cloud private cloud hybrid cloud community cloud cloud service models cloud service models iaas layer paas layer saas layer virtualization what is virtualization data virtualization hardware virtualization software virtualization server virtualization storage virtualization os virtualization linux virtualization windows virtualization cloud service providers cloud service provider companies amazon ec2 aws vs azure vs gcp miscellaneous cloud server cloud deployment model cloud hypervisor cloud computing examples cloud computing jobs features of cloud computing cloud computing mcq cloud computing mcq interview interview questions next ? cloud computing tutorial cloud computing tutorial provides basic and advanced concepts of cloud computing. our cloud computing tutorial is designed for beginners and professionals. cloud computing is a virtualization-based technology that allows us to create, configure, and customize applications via an internet connection. the cloud technology includes a development platform, hard disk, software application, and database. what is cloud computing the term cloud refers to a network or the internet. it is a technology that uses remote servers on the internet to store, manage, and access data online rather than local drives. the data can be anything such as files, images, documents, audio, video, and more. there are the following operations that we can do using cloud computing: developing new applications and services storage, back up, and recovery of data hosting blogs and websites delivery of software on demand analysis of data streaming videos and audios why cloud computing? small as well as large it companies, follow the traditional methods to provide the it infrastructure. that means for any it company, we need a server room that is the basic need of it companies. in that server room, there should be a database server, mail server, networking, firewalls, routers, modem, switches, qps (query per second means how much queries or load will be handled by the server), configurable system, high net speed, and the maintenance engineers. to establish such it infrastructure, we need to spend lots of money. to overcome all these problems and to reduce the it infrastructure cost, cloud computing comes into existence. characteristics of cloud computing the characteristics of cloud computing are given below: 1) agility the cloud works in a distributed computing environment. it shares resources among users and works very fast. 2) high availability and reliability the availability of servers is high and more reliable because the chances of infrastructure failure are minimum. 3) high scalability cloud offers "on-demand" provisioning of resources on a large scale, without having engineers for peak loads. 4) multi-sharing with the help of cloud computing, multiple users and applications can work more efficiently with cost reductions by sharing common infrastructure. 5) device and location independence cloud computing enables the users to access systems using a web browser regardless of their location or what device they use e.g. pc, mobile phone, etc. as infrastructure is off-site (typically provided by a third-party) and accessed via the internet, users can connect from anywhere. 6) maintenance maintenance of cloud computing applications is easier, since they do not need to be installed on each user's computer and can be accessed from different places. so, it reduces the cost also. 7) low cost by using cloud computing, the cost will be reduced because to take the services of cloud computing, it company need not to set its own infrastructure and pay-as-per usage of resources. 8) services in the pay-per-use mode application programming interfaces (apis) are provided to the users so that they can access services on the cloud by using these apis and pay the charges as per the usage of services. prerequisite before learning cloud computing, you must have the basic knowledge of computer fundamentals. audience our cloud computing is designed to help beginners and professionals. problem we assure that you will not find any difficulty while learning our cloud computing tutorial. but if there is any mistake in this tutorial, kindly post the problem or error in the contact form. next topicadvantages and disadvantages next ? for videos join our youtube channel: join now feedback send your feedback to [email protected] help others, please share learn latest tutorials splunk spss swagger transact-sql tumblr reactjs regex reinforcement learning r programming rxjs react native python design patterns python pillow python turtle keras preparation aptitude reasoning verbal ability interview questions company questions trending technologies artificial intelligence aws selenium cloud computing hadoop reactjs data science angular 7 blockchain git machine learning devops b.tech / mca dbms data structures daa operating system computer network compiler design computer organization discrete mathematics ethical hacking computer graphics software engineering web technology cyber security automata c programming c++ java .net python programs control system data mining data warehouse javatpoint services javatpoint offers too many high quality services. mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. website designing website development java development php development wordpress graphic designing logo digital marketing on page and off page seo ppc content development corporate training classroom and online training data entry training for college campus javatpoint offers college campus training on core java, advance java, .net, android, hadoop, php, web technology and python. please mail your requirement at [email protected] duration: 1 week to 2 week like/subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter learn tutorialslearn javalearn data structureslearn c programminglearn c++ tutoriallearn c# tutoriallearn php tutoriallearn html tutoriallearn javascript tutoriallearn jquery tutoriallearn spring tutorial our websitesjavatpoint.comhindi100.comlyricsia.comquoteperson.comjobandplacement.com our services website development android development website designing digital marketing summer training industrial training college campus training contact address: g-13, 2nd floor, sec-3 noida, up, 201301, india contact no: 0120-4256464, 9990449935contact us subscribe us privacy policysitemap about me ? copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. all rights reserved. developed by javatpoint.