logical reasoning questions - javatpoint ? scroll to top home reasoning aptitude verbal ability programs projects interview q java jsp android design pattern c# html css jquery training logical reasoning reasoning verbal reasoning number series letter series analogies cause & effect verbal classification blood relations logical sequence of words direction sense test logical venn diagram verification of the truth of the statement data sufficiency coding decoding assertion and reason essential part analyzing arguments logical problems course of action matching definition syllogism statement & assumption non-verbal reasoning image series construction of shapes classification picture analogies rule detection next ? logical reasoning the logical reasoning section is an important part of competitive exams. it contains different types of reasoning questions which are intended to judge analytical and logical reasoning skills of the candidate. the logical reasoning questions can be verbal or non-verbal: in verbal logical reasoning questions, the concepts and problems are expressed in words. the candidates are required to read and understand the given text or paragraph and according choose the right answer from the given options. in non-verbal logical reasoning questions, the concepts and problems are expressed in the form of figures, images or diagrams and the candidates are required to understand them before choosing the right answer out of the given options. logical reasoning: verbal reasoning logical reasoning (verbal reasoning) refers to the ability of a candidate to understand and logically work through concepts and problems expressed in words. it checks the ability to extract and work with the meaning, information, and implications from the bulk of the text. the logics are expressed verbally, and you have to understand the logic before solving the questions. logical reasoning: nov-verbal reasoning logical reasoning (non-verbal reasoning) refers to the ability of a candidate to understand and logically work through concepts and problems expressed in the form of images, diagrams, etc. it checks the ability to extract and work with the meaning, information, and implications from the given images or diagrams. here, the logics are expressed non-verbally, and you have to understand the logic before solving them. logical reasoning: verbal logical reasoning: non-verbal table of contents logical reasoning: verbal number series letter series analogies cause & effect verbal classification blood relations logical sequence of words direction sense test logical venn diagram verification of the truth of the statement data sufficiency coding decoding assertion and reason essential part analyzing arguments logical problems course of action matching definition syllogism statement and assumptions logical reasoning: non-verbal image series construction of shapes classification picture analogies rule detection logical reasoning: verbal 1) number series 1) which number should come next in the series, 48, 24, 12, ......? 8 6 4 2 show answer workspace answer: b explanation: it is a simple division series in which each number is one-half of the previous number. we can also say that each number is divided by 2 to arrive at the next number; on dividing 48 by 2, we get 24 on dividing 24 by 2, we get 12 so, on dividing 12 by 2, we will get 6 (option b). number series 1 number series 2 number series 3 number series 4 2) letter series 1) rqp, onm, _, ihg, fed, find the missing letters. cde lki lkj bac show answer workspace answer: c explanation: the series consists of letters in reverse alphabetical order. therefore, the missing letters are lkj. letter series 1 letter series 2 3) analogies 1) petal: flower pen: paper engine: car cat: dog ball: game show answer workspace answer: b explanation: a petal is a part of the flower. in a similar way, an engine is a part of the car. analogies 1 analogies 2 4) cause and effect 1) i. all the colleges in the city had to keep closed for three days a week. ii. many students have left the local colleges. statement ii is the cause and statement i is its effect statement i is the cause and statement ii is its effect both the statements are effects of independent causes both the statements are independent causes both the statements are effects of some common cause show answer workspace answer: c explanation: closing the colleges for few days in a week and students leaving the colleges are independent issues which must be the effects of independent causes. cause and effect 1 5) verbal classification 1) which word does not belong to others? inch kilogram centimeter yard show answer workspace answer: b explanation: a kilogram measures weight and the other units are used to measure length. verbal classification 1 verbal classification 2 verbal classification 3 6) blood relations 1) pointing to a photograph, a man said, "i have no brother, and that man's father is my father's son." whose photograph was it? his son his own his father his nephew show answer workspace answer: a explanation: the narrator has no brother, so he is the only son of his father, and his father's son is he himself. hence, the narrator is the father of the man in the photograph, so the man in the photograph is his son. blood relations 1 blood relations 2 blood relations 3 7) logical sequence of words 1) arrange the following words in a meaningful sequence. 1. infection 2. consultation 3. doctor 4. treatment 5. recovery 1, 3, 4, 5, 2 1, 3, 2, 4, 5 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 2, 3, 5, 1, 4 show answer workspace answer: b explanation: infection occurs first, then one visits a doctor, and after consultation, the doctor starts the treatment which is followed by recovery. logical sequence of words 1 logical sequence of words 2 8) direction sense test 1) peter is in the east of tom and tom is in the north of john. mike is in the south of john then in which direction of peter is mike? south-east south-west south north-east show answer workspace answer: b explanation: direction sense test 1 direction sense test 2 direction sense test 3 9) logical venn diagrams 1) which of the following diagrams correctly represents lions, elephants, and animals? show answer workspace answer: a explanation: lions and elephants have no relationship to each other, but both are animals. logical venn diagrams 1 logical venn diagrams 2 logical venn diagrams 3 10) verification of the truth of the statement 1) an animal always has skin heart lungs life ears show answer workspace answer: d explanation: an animal will always have a life. verification of the truth of the statement 1 verification of the truth of the statement 2 verification of the truth of the statement 3 11) data sufficiency 1) what is geeta's rank in the class? i. there are 30 students in the class. ii. there are 10 students who scored less than geeta. statement i alone is sufficient, but statement ii alone is not sufficient statement ii alone is sufficient, but statement i alone is not sufficient either i or ii is sufficient neither i nor ii is sufficient both i and ii are needed show answer workspace answer: e explanation: from statements i and ii, we conclude that out of 30 students 10 students scored less than geeta. it means, 19 students scored more than geeta. so, geeta's rank in the class is 20th. thus, both the statements are needed to answer the question. data sufficiency 1 data sufficiency 2 12) coding decoding 1) if in a certain language, noida is coded as opjeb, how is delhi coded in that language? cdkgh efmij fgnjk ihled show answer workspace answer: b explanation: each letter in the word noida is moved one step forward to form the code opjeb. so, in delhi, d will be coded as e, e as f, l as m, h as i, i as j. thus, the code becomes efmij. coding decoding 1 13) assertion and reason 1) assertion (a): james watt invented the steam engine. reason (r): it was invented to pump out the water from the flooded mines. both a and r are true and r is the correct explanation of a. both a and r are true, but r is not the correct explanation of a. a is true, but r is false. a is false, but r is true. both a and r are false. show answer workspace answer: a explanation: the need of self-working engine to pump out the water from the flooded mines led james watt to invent the steam engine. assertion and reason 1 assertion and reason 2 assertion and reason 3 14) essential part 1) book education pictures pages knowledge show answer workspace answer: c explanation: a book cannot exist without pages. essential part 1 essential part 2 15) analyzing arguments 1) if you are a fitness walker, you don't need to go to a health gym. you also don't need any fitness equipment for workout. all you need is a pair of comfortable athletic shoes. this paragraph supports which of the following statements; fitness walking is better than weight lifting walking outdoors provides more health benefits than walking indoors fitness walking is an effective and convenient form of exercise poorly designed shoes can cause foot injuries show answer workspace answer: c explanation: in this paragraph, the author is talking about the convenience of fitness walking. he is saying that fitness walking is a workout that does not need equipment and membership of a health gym. analyzing arguments 1 16) logical problems 1) i. pooja is older than mukesh. ii. suresh is older than pooja. iii. mukesh is older than suresh. if the first two statements are true, the third statement is false true uncertain show answer workspace answer: a explanation: from the first two statements, it is clear that mukesh is the youngest of the three. so, the third statement is false. logical problems 1 logical problems 2 17) course of action 1) statement: a severe drought is reported in many states of the country. courses of action; i. the government should immediately provide financial assistance to the people of the affected states. ii. the government should immediately send food, water, and fodder to the affected states to save people and livestock. only i follows only ii follows either i or ii follows neither i nor ii follows both i and ii follow show answer workspace answer: b explanation: in this situation, the government should think about saving the lives of people and livestock by providing basic amenities like food and water. providing financial assistance will not provide immediate relief and would put an extra burden on the funds. course of action 1 course of action 2 18) matching definitions 1) it is called restitution when you compensate someone for damaging his or her property in some way. which of the following situations is the best example of restitution? tom borrows his friend's car and returns the car with an empty petrol tank. he apologizes and tells his friend that he will fill the tank tomorrow. tom borrows his friend's camera. tom fails to zipper the case, and the camera falls on the ground, and the lens shatters. when tom returns the camera, he tells his friend that he will pay for the damage. peter asks tom to stay in his apartment when he is out of the town. one day tom arrives to stay and finds that pipe has burst and the apartment is filled with water. he calls the plumber to repair the pipe and pays for the repair. a pothole in the parking of peter's company caused his flat tyre. he informs his boss and expects that the company should pay for the repair. show answer workspace answer: b explanation: tom damaged his friend's camera when the camera was in his possession, and he agreed to pay for the repair. matching definitions 1 19) syllogism 1) statements: i) all heroes are villains. ii) all villains are zeros. iii) some heroes are jokers. conclusion: i) some jokers are heroes ii) some villains are jokers iii) some zeros are villains only i, ii follow all i, ii, iii follows only i, iii follow only i, ii follow none of these show answer workspace answer: b explanation: from the given statement and the above diagram, it is clear that option b is the correct answer. syllogism 1 syllogism 2 syllogism 3 20) statement and assumptions 1) statement: "you are hereby appointed as a software engineer with a probation period of six months and your skills and performance will be reviewed at the end of the probation period for confirmation." - a line written in an appointment letter. assumptions: i. the performance of the candidate is not known at the time of appointment. ii. an individual is likely to prove his worth during the probation period. only i is implicit only ii is implicit either i or ii is implicit neither i nor ii is implicit both i and ii are implicit show answer workspace answer: e explanation: the performance of a new employee is generally tested over a span of time. so, i is implicit. the statement also says that the individual's worth shall be reviewed during the probation period before confirmation. so, ii is also implicit. statement and assumptions 1 statement and assumptions 2 statement and assumptions 3 statement and assumptions 4 logical reasoning: non-verbal 1) image series 1) which answer figure will continue the same series as established by the problem figures? problem figures; answer figures; 1 2 3 4 5 show answer workspace answer: b explanation: in problem figure a, the arcs are towards arrow then in the next step arcs are pointed away from the arrow and so on. also, in the first two problem figures the arrows are pointing upward, and in the next two problem figures, the arrows are pointing downward and so on. and, in the lower part of the problem figures, the two signs are changing their positions alternately. now, the answer figure 2 fulfills all the above conditions, so it will continue the series. image series 1 image series 2 2) construction of shapes 1) select three figures out of the following five figures which when fitted into each other would form a square. 1, 2, 4 1, 2, 5 5, 3, 1 2, 3, 4 show answer workspace answer: b explanation: figures 1, 2 and 5 will form the square as shown in the following image; construction of shapes 1 construction of shapes 2 3) classification 1) which of the following figures is different from others? figure a figure b figure c figure d figure e show answer workspace answer: d explanation: only in figure d, the symbols on either side of the horizontal line are different. classification 1 classification 2 4) picture analogies 1) show answer workspace answer: a explanation: a color plate is to a color brush as a reel of a thread is to a sewing needle, i.e., color brush and sewing needle are the tools needed to perform the task. so, the needle will go in the empty box. picture analogies 1 picture analogies 2 5) rule detection 1) which of the following series of figures follows the given rule? rule: the closed figure loses its sides, and the open figure gains its sides as the series proceeds. 1 2 3 4 show answer workspace answer: a explanation: in the first series, the closed figure loses sides one by one and the open figure gains sides one by one as the series proceeds. rule detection 1 rule detection 2 next topicnumber series 1 next ? for videos join our youtube channel: join now feedback send your feedback to [email protected] help others, please share learn latest tutorials splunk spss swagger transact-sql tumblr reactjs regex reinforcement learning r programming rxjs react native python design patterns python pillow python turtle keras preparation aptitude reasoning verbal ability interview questions company questions trending technologies artificial intelligence aws selenium cloud computing hadoop reactjs data science angular 7 blockchain git machine learning devops b.tech / mca dbms data structures daa operating system computer network compiler design computer organization discrete mathematics ethical hacking computer graphics software engineering web technology cyber security automata c programming c++ java .net python programs control system data mining data warehouse javatpoint services javatpoint offers too many high quality services. mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. website designing website development java development php development wordpress graphic designing logo digital marketing on page and off page seo ppc content development corporate training classroom and online training data entry training for college campus javatpoint offers college campus training on core java, advance java, .net, android, hadoop, php, web technology and python. please mail your requirement at [email protected] duration: 1 week to 2 week like/subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter learn tutorialslearn javalearn data structureslearn c programminglearn c++ tutoriallearn c# tutoriallearn php tutoriallearn html tutoriallearn javascript tutoriallearn jquery tutoriallearn spring tutorial our websitesjavatpoint.comhindi100.comlyricsia.comquoteperson.comjobandplacement.com our services website development android development website designing digital marketing summer training industrial training college campus training contact address: g-13, 2nd floor, sec-3 noida, up, 201301, india contact no: 0120-4256464, 9990449935contact us subscribe us privacy policysitemap about me ? copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. all rights reserved. developed by javatpoint.