magento 2 tutorial - javatpoint ? scroll to top home magento 2 php mysql laravel wordpress codeigniter yii html css javascript jquery python java sql interview q magento 2 tutorial magento 2 tutorial what is magento 2 history of magento 2 features of magento 2 advantage & disadvantage architecture of magento 2 magento 2 vs magento 1 what is composer install & configure xampp installation magento 2 installation installation using composer installation errors basic configuration store configuration magento 2 store setup magento 2 products types create product category create product create product attribute create attribute sets setup products in homepage setup multiple websites, stores, store views create & manage cms inventory management setup tax, tax rule, tax rates setup shipping methods payment setup payment methods setup paypal payment setup check/money order payment method set up bank transfer payment method set up cash on delivery (cod) payment method set up zero subtotal checkout payment method set up purchase order (po) payment method set up authorize.net method order processing magento 2: order life cycle magento 2: order processing magento 2: setup order emails misc magento 2 reports generate order report magento 2 site optimization search engine optimization profiling & database performance magento 2 setup newsletter interview questions magento i/q php technologies php tutorial wordpress tutorial codeigniter tutorial yii tutorial laravel tutorial next ? magento 2 tutorial the magento 2 tutorial provides an introduction of magento 2 software. magento 2 is a cms (content management system), developed by varien inc. it is an open-source software which is a very useful software for online business. magento 2 is developed in php and zend framework. magento 2 is currently the largest e-commerce platform in the world. magento 2 is known for easy customization and extension of its functionalities. in this magento 2 tutorial, we will learn the magento coding practices and also discuss the various topics such as the installation of magento 2 software, history of magento 2, features of magento 2, advantages and disadvantages, and architecture, etc. this tutorial will contain the various sections, and each section will contain the related topics with it, explaining with proper screenshots. you will learn how to download and how to set a customize magento 2 on local xampp webserver correctly. the main installation error will also be considered in this tutorial. we will find out how to create, set, and activate the user theme based on luma theme. prerequisite before learning magento 2 in-depth, you must be familiar with developing in the xampp or lamp environment. you should have the working knowledge of html, css, php, xml, and also have the knowledge of e-commerce business, so that you can understand the concepts easily. if you do not have all these fundamental knowledge, then we will suggest you to go through with our html, css and php tutorial. audience our magento 2 tutorial is designed specifically for beginners as well as include some high-level concept for professionals. there are lots of topics given which will help you to learn magento 2 easily. problems we assure you that you will not find any difficulty while learning with magento 2 tutorial. but, if you find any type of mistake, then you can post it in our comment section. next topicwhat is magento 2? next ? for videos join our youtube channel: join now feedback send your feedback to [email protected] help others, please share learn latest tutorials splunk spss swagger transact-sql tumblr reactjs regex reinforcement learning r programming rxjs react native python design patterns python pillow python turtle keras preparation aptitude reasoning verbal ability interview questions company questions trending technologies artificial intelligence aws selenium cloud computing hadoop reactjs data science angular 7 blockchain git machine learning devops b.tech / mca dbms data structures daa operating system computer network compiler design computer organization discrete mathematics ethical hacking computer graphics software engineering web technology cyber security automata c programming c++ java .net python programs control system data mining data warehouse javatpoint services javatpoint offers too many high quality services. mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. website designing website development java development php development wordpress graphic designing logo digital marketing on page and off page seo ppc content development corporate training classroom and online training data entry training for college campus javatpoint offers college campus training on core java, advance java, .net, android, hadoop, php, web technology and python. please mail your requirement at [email protected] duration: 1 week to 2 week like/subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter learn tutorialslearn javalearn data structureslearn c programminglearn c++ tutoriallearn c# tutoriallearn php tutoriallearn html tutoriallearn javascript tutoriallearn jquery tutoriallearn spring tutorial our websitesjavatpoint.comhindi100.comlyricsia.comquoteperson.comjobandplacement.com our services website development android development website designing digital marketing summer training industrial training college campus training contact address: g-13, 2nd floor, sec-3 noida, up, 201301, india contact no: 0120-4256464, 9990449935contact us subscribe us privacy policysitemap about me ? copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. all rights reserved. developed by javatpoint.