numpy tutorial - javatpoint ? scroll to top home python numpy java sql android cloud typescript javascript servlet jsp struts2 spring quiz projects interview q comment forum training numpy tutorial numpy tutorial environment setup numpy ndarray numpy data types numpy array creation array from existing data arrays within the numerical range numpy broadcasting numpy array iteration numpy bitwise operators numpy string functions numpy mathematical functions statistical functions sorting & searching copies and views matrix library numpy linear algebra matrix multiplication numpy functions numpy array() numpy concatenate() numpy append() numpy reshape() numpy sum() numpy random() numpy.zeros() numpy.log() numpy.where() numpy.argsort() numpy.transpose() numpy.mean() numpy.unique() numpy.ndarray.tolist() numpy.dot() numpy.loadtxt() numpy.clip() numpy.ndarray.flatten() numpy.meshgrid() numpy.std() numpy.argmax() numpy.diff() numpy.empty() numpy.histogram() numpy.sort() numpy.average() numpy.pad() numpy.ravel() numpy.save() numpy arccos() numpy arcsin() numpy arctan() numpy degrees() numpy tan() numpy deg2rad() numpy hypot() numpy rad2deg() numpy radians() numpy arcsinh() numpy arctanh() numpy ceil() numpy fix() numpy floor() numpy rint() numpy tanh() numpy trunc() numpy.matlib.empty() numpy.matlib.eye() numpy.matlib.identity() numpy.matlib.ones() numpy.matlib.zeros() numpy.arrange() numpy.asarray() numpy.frombuffer() numpy.fromiter() numpy.linspace() numpy.logspace() next ? python numpy tutorial our python numpy tutorial provides the basic and advanced concepts of the numpy. our numpy tutorial is designed for beginners and professionals. numpy stands for numeric python which is a python package for the computation and processing of the multidimensional and single dimensional array elements. what is numpy numpy stands for numeric python which is a python package for the computation and processing of the multidimensional and single dimensional array elements. travis oliphant created numpy package in 2005 by injecting the features of the ancestor module numeric into another module numarray. it is an extension module of python which is mostly written in c. it provides various functions which are capable of performing the numeric computations with a high speed. numpy provides various powerful data structures, implementing multi-dimensional arrays and matrices. these data structures are used for the optimal computations regarding arrays and matrices. in this tutorial, we will go through the numeric python library numpy. the need of numpy with the revolution of data science, data analysis libraries like numpy, scipy, pandas, etc. have seen a lot of growth. with a much easier syntax than other programming languages, python is the first choice language for the data scientist. numpy provides a convenient and efficient way to handle the vast amount of data. numpy is also very convenient with matrix multiplication and data reshaping. numpy is fast which makes it reasonable to work with a large set of data. there are the following advantages of using numpy for data analysis. numpy performs array-oriented computing. it efficiently implements the multidimensional arrays. it performs scientific computations. it is capable of performing fourier transform and reshaping the data stored in multidimensional arrays. numpy provides the in-built functions for linear algebra and random number generation. nowadays, numpy in combination with scipy and mat-plotlib is used as the replacement to matlab as python is more complete and easier programming language than matlab. prerequisite before learning python numpy, you must have the basic knowledge of python concepts. audience our numpy tutorial is designed to help beginners and professionals. problem we assure you that you will not find any problem in this python numpy tutorial. but if there is any mistake, please post the problem in the contact form. next topicnumpy environment setup next ? for videos join our youtube channel: join now feedback send your feedback to [email protected] help others, please share learn latest tutorials splunk spss swagger transact-sql tumblr reactjs regex reinforcement learning r programming rxjs react native python design patterns python pillow python turtle keras preparation aptitude reasoning verbal ability interview questions company questions trending technologies artificial intelligence aws selenium cloud computing hadoop reactjs data science angular 7 blockchain git machine learning devops b.tech / mca dbms data structures daa operating system computer network compiler design computer organization discrete mathematics ethical hacking computer graphics software engineering web technology cyber security automata c programming c++ java .net python programs control system data mining data warehouse javatpoint services javatpoint offers too many high quality services. mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. website designing website development java development php development wordpress graphic designing logo digital marketing on page and off page seo ppc content development corporate training classroom and online training data entry training for college campus javatpoint offers college campus training on core java, advance java, .net, android, hadoop, php, web technology and python. please mail your requirement at [email protected] duration: 1 week to 2 week like/subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter learn tutorialslearn javalearn data structureslearn c programminglearn c++ tutoriallearn c# tutoriallearn php tutoriallearn html tutoriallearn javascript tutoriallearn jquery tutoriallearn spring tutorial our websitesjavatpoint.comhindi100.comlyricsia.comquoteperson.comjobandplacement.com our services website development android development website designing digital marketing summer training industrial training college campus training contact address: g-13, 2nd floor, sec-3 noida, up, 201301, india contact no: 0120-4256464, 9990449935contact us subscribe us privacy policysitemap about me ? copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. all rights reserved. developed by javatpoint.