postman tutorial - javatpoint ? scroll to top home postman software testing selenium appium jmeter junit jira testng soapui uipath rpa qa selenium python interview q postman tutorial postman tutorial installation & updates postman navigation sending your first request creating first collection sending api requests creating requests authorizing requests get request in postman response in postman request parameters post request postman cookies collections postman collections creating collections sharing collections variables postman variables dynamic variables scripts intro to scripts pre-request scripts test scripts test examples workflows in postman asserts in postman chai assertion library mock servers intro to mock servers setting up a mock server get response in mock server postman api intro to postman api continuous integration branching & looping next ? postman tutorial postman is one of the most popular software testing tools which is used for api testing. with the help of this tool, developers can easily create, test, share, and document apis. this tutorial will help in understanding why postman is so famous and what makes it unique when compared to other api testing tools. all the examples in this tutorial are tested and can be imported in postman. introduction to postman postman is a standalone software testing api (application programming interface) platform to build, test, design, modify, and document apis. it is a simple graphic user interface for sending and viewing http requests and responses. while using postman, for testing purposes, one doesn't need to write any http client network code. instead, we build test suites called collections and let postman interact with the api. in this tool, nearly any functionality that any developer may need is embedded. this tool has the ability to make various types of http requests like get, post, put, patch, and convert the api to code for languages like javascript and python. terminologies related to postman api application programming interface (api) is software that acts as an intermediary for two apps to communicate with each other. we use apis whenever we use an application like twitter, facebook, sending text messages, or checking the weather over the phone. http http (hypertext transfer protocol) is the collection of rules for the transmission of data on the world wide web, like graphic images, text, video, sound, and other multimedia data. the web users implicitly make use of http as soon as they open their web browser. example: a user or browser enters the http request to the server; the server then returns the user response. this response includes the request status information and may consist of the requested material as well. the most commonly used http methods are get, post, put, patch, head, delete, and options. why use postman? postman is based on a wide range of extremely user-friendly power tools. for more than 8 million users, postman has become a tool of convenience. following are the reasons why postman is used: accessibility- one can use it anywhere after installing postman into the device by simply logging in to the account. use collections-postman allows users to build collections for their api-calls. every set can create multiple requests and subfolders. it will help to organize the test suites. test development- to test checkpoints, verification of successful http response status shall be added to every api- calls. automation testing-tests can be performed in several repetitions or iterations by using the collection runner or newman, which saves time for repeated tests. creating environments- the design of multiple environments results in less replication of tests as one can use the same collection but for a different setting. debugging- to effectively debug the tests, the postman console helps to track what data is being retrieved. collaboration- you can import or export collections and environments to enhance the sharing of files. you may also use a direct connection to share the collections. continuous integration-it can support continuous integration. prerequisites before proceeding with this tutorial, you should have a basic knowledge of api, automation, and manual testing. audience this tutorial is created for those who would like to learn the basics of postman. as the number of web and mobile applications is increasing, the importance of api testing is also growing. so this tutorial will help you to learn postman testing for testing apis. after completion of this tutorial, you will get a basic level of understanding of postman and api testing. this tutorial will also give you a good understanding of how to use postman to execute apis for any given url for your daily work. problems we assure you that you will not find any difficulty while learning our postman tutorial. but if there is any mistake in this tutorial, kindly post the problem or error in the contact form so that we can improve it. next topicinstallation & updates next ? for videos join our youtube channel: join now feedback send your feedback to [email protected] help others, please share learn latest tutorials splunk spss swagger transact-sql tumblr reactjs regex reinforcement learning r programming rxjs react native python design patterns python pillow python turtle keras preparation aptitude reasoning verbal ability interview questions company questions trending technologies artificial intelligence aws selenium cloud computing hadoop reactjs data science angular 7 blockchain git machine learning devops b.tech / mca dbms data structures daa operating system computer network compiler design computer organization discrete mathematics ethical hacking computer graphics software engineering web technology cyber security automata c programming c++ java .net python programs control system data mining data warehouse javatpoint services javatpoint offers too many high quality services. mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. website designing website development java development php development wordpress graphic designing logo digital marketing on page and off page seo ppc content development corporate training classroom and online training data entry training for college campus javatpoint offers college campus training on core java, advance java, .net, android, hadoop, php, web technology and python. please mail your requirement at [email protected] duration: 1 week to 2 week like/subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter learn tutorialslearn javalearn data structureslearn c programminglearn c++ tutoriallearn c# tutoriallearn php tutoriallearn html tutoriallearn javascript tutoriallearn jquery tutoriallearn spring tutorial our websitesjavatpoint.comhindi100.comlyricsia.comquoteperson.comjobandplacement.com our services website development android development website designing digital marketing summer training industrial training college campus training contact address: g-13, 2nd floor, sec-3 noida, up, 201301, india contact no: 0120-4256464, 9990449935contact us subscribe us privacy policysitemap about me ? copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. all rights reserved. developed by javatpoint.