python flask tutorial - javatpoint ? scroll to top home python flask numpy java sql android cloud typescript javascript servlet jsp struts2 spring quiz projects interview q comment forum training python flask flask tutorial first flask application flask app routing flask url building flask http methods flask templates flask request object flask cookies flask session file uploading redirect & errors flask flashing flask-mail extension flask sqlite flask sqlalchemy flask wtf flask vs django next ? python flask tutorial flask tutorial provides the basic and advanced concepts of the python flask framework. our flask tutorial is designed for beginners and professionals. flask is a web framework that provides libraries to build lightweight web applications in python. it is developed by armin ronacher who leads an international group of python enthusiasts (pocco). what is flask? flask is a web framework that provides libraries to build lightweight web applications in python. it is developed by armin ronacher who leads an international group of python enthusiasts (pocco). it is based on wsgi toolkit and jinja2 template engine. flask is considered as a micro framework. what is wsgi? it is an acronym for web server gateway interface which is a standard for python web application development. it is considered as the specification for the universal interface between the web server and web application. what is jinja2? jinja2 is a web template engine which combines a template with a certain data source to render the dynamic web pages. flask environment setup to install flask on the system, we need to have python 2.7 or higher installed on our system. however, we suggest using python 3 for the development in the flask. install virtual environment (virtualenv) virtualenv is considered as the virtual python environment builder which is used to create the multiple python virtual environment side by side. it can be installed by using the following command. 
$ pip install virtualenv
 once it is installed, we can create the new virtual environment into a folder as given below. 
$ mkdir new 
$ cd new 
$ virtualenv venv
 to activate the corresponding environment, use the following command on the linux operating system. 
$ venv/bin/activate 
 on windows, use the following command. 
$ venv\scripts\activate
 we can now install the flask by using the following command. 
$ pip install flask
 however, we can install the flask using the above command without creating the virtual environment. to test the flask installation, open python on the command line and type python to open the python shell. try to import the package flask. we have successfully installed the flask since we do not get the error in the process. now, we can continue with the tutorial. prerequisite before learning flask, you must have the basic knowledge of python concepts. audience our flask tutorial is designed to help beginners and professionals. problem we assure you that you will not find any problem in this python flask tutorial. but if there is any mistake, please post the problem in the contact form. next topicfirst flask application next ? for videos join our youtube channel: join now feedback send your feedback to [email protected] help others, please share learn latest tutorials splunk spss swagger transact-sql tumblr reactjs regex reinforcement learning r programming rxjs react native python design patterns python pillow python turtle keras preparation aptitude reasoning verbal ability interview questions company questions trending technologies artificial intelligence aws selenium cloud computing hadoop reactjs data science angular 7 blockchain git machine learning devops b.tech / mca dbms data structures daa operating system computer network compiler design computer organization discrete mathematics ethical hacking computer graphics software engineering web technology cyber security automata c programming c++ java .net python programs control system data mining data warehouse javatpoint services javatpoint offers too many high quality services. mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. website designing website development java development php development wordpress graphic designing logo digital marketing on page and off page seo ppc content development corporate training classroom and online training data entry training for college campus javatpoint offers college campus training on core java, advance java, .net, android, hadoop, php, web technology and python. please mail your requirement at [email protected] duration: 1 week to 2 week like/subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter learn tutorialslearn javalearn data structureslearn c programminglearn c++ tutoriallearn c# tutoriallearn php tutoriallearn html tutoriallearn javascript tutoriallearn jquery tutoriallearn spring tutorial our websitesjavatpoint.comhindi100.comlyricsia.comquoteperson.comjobandplacement.com our services website development android development website designing digital marketing summer training industrial training college campus training contact address: g-13, 2nd floor, sec-3 noida, up, 201301, india contact no: 0120-4256464, 9990449935contact us subscribe us privacy policysitemap about me ? copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. all rights reserved. developed by javatpoint.