pytorch tutorial - javatpoint ? scroll to top home pytorch java aws iot computer fundamentals control system html css aptitude selenium kotlin javascript jquery quiz projects interview q comment forum training pytorch tutorial pytorch tutorial what is pytorch pytorch installation pytorch packages torch.nn in pytorch basics of pytorch pytorch vs. tensorflow tensors tensors introduction one dimensional tensor vector operation two dimensional tensor gradient with pytorch linear regression introduction prediction & linear class custom module loss function gradient descent mean squared error training perceptron perceptron introduction deep learning perceptron: create dataset perceptron: model setup perceptron: training perceptron: testing deep neural network non-linear boundary architecture of dnn feed forward process backpropagation process implementation of dnn testing of dnn model image recognition introduction mnist dataset image transforms neural network implementation neural network validation final test cnn cnn introduction image transforms cnn implementation training of cnn validation of cnn testing of cnn image classification cifar-10 and cifar-100 datasets lenet testing for cifar-10 hyperparameter tuning data augmentation process style transferring style transferring intro image loading & transformation feature extraction gram matrix optimization process interview questions pytorch interview next ? pytorch tutorial pytorch tutorial is designed for both beginners and professionals. our tutorial provides all the basic and advanced concepts of deep learning, such as deep neural network and image processing. pytorch is a framework of deep learning, and it is a python machine learning package based on torch. this tutorial is designed in such a way that we can easily implement deep learning project on pytorch in a very efficient way. prerequisite pytorch is completely based on python. so, it is essential to have basic knowledge of python to implement the pytorch project. good understanding of basic mathematics allows us to understand the concept of pytorch better. audience this tutorial is helpful for those students who are interested in gaining the knowledge of how deep learning projects are implemented on pytorch framework. this tutorial covers all the basics of pytorch and how deep neural networks are implemented and use in the development of deep learning project. problems we assure that you will not find any problem with this pytorch tutorial. but if there is any mistake, please post the problem in the contact form. next topicwhat is pytorch next ? for videos join our youtube channel: join now feedback send your feedback to [email protected] help others, please share learn latest tutorials splunk spss swagger transact-sql tumblr reactjs regex reinforcement learning r programming rxjs react native python design patterns python pillow python turtle keras preparation aptitude reasoning verbal ability interview questions company questions trending technologies artificial intelligence aws selenium cloud computing hadoop reactjs data science angular 7 blockchain git machine learning devops b.tech / mca dbms data structures daa operating system computer network compiler design computer organization discrete mathematics ethical hacking computer graphics software engineering web technology cyber security automata c programming c++ java .net python programs control system data mining data warehouse javatpoint services javatpoint offers too many high quality services. mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. website designing website development java development php development wordpress graphic designing logo digital marketing on page and off page seo ppc content development corporate training classroom and online training data entry training for college campus javatpoint offers college campus training on core java, advance java, .net, android, hadoop, php, web technology and python. please mail your requirement at [email protected] duration: 1 week to 2 week like/subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter learn tutorialslearn javalearn data structureslearn c programminglearn c++ tutoriallearn c# tutoriallearn php tutoriallearn html tutoriallearn javascript tutoriallearn jquery tutoriallearn spring tutorial our websitesjavatpoint.comhindi100.comlyricsia.comquoteperson.comjobandplacement.com our services website development android development website designing digital marketing summer training industrial training college campus training contact address: g-13, 2nd floor, sec-3 noida, up, 201301, india contact no: 0120-4256464, 9990449935contact us subscribe us privacy policysitemap about me ? copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. all rights reserved. developed by javatpoint.