rpa tutorial - javatpoint ? scroll to top home rpa software testing selenium appium jmeter junit postman jira testng soapui uipath qa selenium python interview q rpa tutorial rpa tutorial history of rpa advantage & disadvantage applications of rpa rpa architecture components of rpa rpa life cycle rpa implementation working of rpa rpa services rpa tools differences rpa vs ai rpa vs test automation rpa vs traditional automation miscellaneous examples of rpa myths of rpa top rpa vendors rpa failures rpa jobs & future uipath vs blue prism vs automation anywhere next ? rpa tutorial our rpa tutorial provides the basic and advanced concepts of rpa. this tutorial is designed for both beginners and professionals. this tutorial gives you an introduction to rpa along with a wide range of rpa topics such as rpa features, rpa applications, rpa tools, rpa examples, and rpa interview questions, etc. what is rpa? rpa stands for robotic process automation. it is the technology used for software tools that automate human tasks, which are manual, rule-based, or repetitive. typically, it is like a bot that performs such tasks at a much higher rate than a human alone. these rpa software bots never sleep and make zero mistakes, and can interact with in-house applications, websites, user portals, etc. they can log into applications, enter data, open emails and attachments, calculate and complete tasks, and then log out. the term robotic process automation creates a picture of physical robots doing some labor-intensive human physical tasks such as uploading or unloading heavy goods from a vehicle or cleaning the house etc. however, in reality, the picture is completely different. the word 'robot' in 'rpa' is not a physical robot but a virtual system that helps in automating the repetitive manual computing or business process tasks. rpa technologies can be divided into three categories: probots these are the bots that follow simple, repeatable rules to process data. knowbots these are the bots that search user-specified information from the internet and respond to the user. chatbots these are the bots that act and respond as virtual agents. they reply to customer queries in real-time. why rpa? rpa is not part of an organization's it infrastructure. instead, it belongs to the top of the whole organization's it infrastructure. in an it environment, most of the business processes are not smart and intelligent. many of them are dependent on multiple it systems, which rarely interact with each other. such types of tasks are repetitive, time-consuming, and labor-intensive for human beings. with the robotic process automation, it takes large it transformation plans and implementation process to automate those types of repetitive, time-consuming, and rule-based tasks more quickly, accurately, and tirelessly, compared to a human being. rpa technology uses bots that interact with web applications, web sites, excel worksheets, and emails to automate the tasks just like a human. rpa is currently the most efficient automation solution, and it helps human beings to focus on those tasks which require emotional intelligence, reasoning, judgement, and interactions with the customers, rather than just doing repetitive tasks. benefits of rpa robotic process automation technology provides the following benefits: cost savings rpa helps organizations to save a huge amount of cost as it is typically cheaper than hiring an employee to perform the same set of tasks. less error rpa works on standard logic and does not get bored, distracted, or tired. hence, the probability of making errors reduces to a great extent, which means less re-work and an enhanced reputation for efficiency. faster processing rpa works faster than human employees as computer software does not need breaks, food, rest, etc., and can perform repetitive operations tirelessly. with rpa, processing time becomes predictable and consistent, which ensures high-quality customer service across the operations. better regulatory compliance rpa software works on the logic and data fed to it and does what is only needed as per the given instructions. hence, there are minimal chances of not complying with the standard regulations. better customer service when rpa is implemented in a business, it frees many of its employees who can spend their time working on customer-related services. it is very beneficial for businesses that receive a lot of customer queries. it also leads to increased productivity for employees. auditable & secure rpa bots will only access the data for which they are given permission and create a detailed audit trail of all activity. low technical barrier rpa does not require any programming skills to configure the software robot. since it is a code-free technology, any non-technical person can set up the bot using drag and drop features. it also includes the 'recorder' to record the steps of automation. with all these benefits, rpa ensures an overall higher level of quality for any organization. prerequisite there is no specific prerequisite for this tutorial. all you need is continuous learning and practicing with the tools. however, if you want to extend functionalities to match your requirements, then a basic knowledge of software coding and programming logic will be beneficial and put you at an advantage. audience our rpa tutorial is designed to help beginners and professionals. problem we assure you that you will not find any difficulty while learning through our rpa tutorial. but if you find any mistake in this tutorial, we request you to kindly post the problem in the contact form so that we can improve it. next topichistory of rpa next ? for videos join our youtube channel: join now feedback send your feedback to [email protected] help others, please share learn latest tutorials splunk spss swagger transact-sql tumblr reactjs regex reinforcement learning r programming rxjs react native python design patterns python pillow python turtle keras preparation aptitude reasoning verbal ability interview questions company questions trending technologies artificial intelligence aws selenium cloud computing hadoop reactjs data science angular 7 blockchain git machine learning devops b.tech / mca dbms data structures daa operating system computer network compiler design computer organization discrete mathematics ethical hacking computer graphics software engineering web technology cyber security automata c programming c++ java .net python programs control system data mining data warehouse javatpoint services javatpoint offers too many high quality services. mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. website designing website development java development php development wordpress graphic designing logo digital marketing on page and off page seo ppc content development corporate training classroom and online training data entry training for college campus javatpoint offers college campus training on core java, advance java, .net, android, hadoop, php, web technology and python. please mail your requirement at [email protected] duration: 1 week to 2 week like/subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter learn tutorialslearn javalearn data structureslearn c programminglearn c++ tutoriallearn c# tutoriallearn php tutoriallearn html tutoriallearn javascript tutoriallearn jquery tutoriallearn spring tutorial our websitesjavatpoint.comhindi100.comlyricsia.comquoteperson.comjobandplacement.com our services website development android development website designing digital marketing summer training industrial training college campus training contact address: g-13, 2nd floor, sec-3 noida, up, 201301, india contact no: 0120-4256464, 9990449935contact us subscribe us privacy policysitemap about me ? copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. all rights reserved. developed by javatpoint.