selenium tutorial - javatpoint ? scroll to top home selenium selenium python software testing appium jmeter junit postman jira testng soapui uipath rpa qa interview q selenium tutorial selenium tutorial basic terminology selenium features selenium limitations selenium vs qtp selenium tool suite selenium ide selenium ide ide-installation ide-features ide-first test case ide-login test ide-commands ide-creating test cases ide- locating strategies selenium webdriver selenium webdriver webdriver vs rc webdriver-installation first test case webdriver commands running test on chrome running test on firefox running test on ie running test on safari locating strategies handling drop-downs webdriver-drag and drop webdriver-handling alerts scrolling a web page webdriver - browser commands webdriver - navigation commands webdriver - webelement commands handling radio buttons handling checkbox selenium assertions selenium grid selenium python selenium python tutorial selenium c# selenium c# tutorial selenium maven selenium maven misc selenium waits interview questions selenium interview next ? selenium tutorial selenium tutorial provides basic and advanced concepts of selenium. our selenium tutorial is designed for beginners and professionals. selenium is one of the most widely used open source web ui (user interface) automation testing suite. our selenium tutorial includes all topics of selenium such as features, selenium vs qtp, selenium tool suits, selenium ide, selenium ide locating strategies, selenium webdriver, webdriver features, webdriver vs rc, webdriver installation, etc. what is selenium selenium is one of the most widely used open source web ui (user interface) automation testing suite.it was originally developed by jason huggins in 2004 as an internal tool at thought works. selenium supports automation across different browsers, platforms and programming languages. selenium can be easily deployed on platforms such as windows, linux, solaris and macintosh. moreover, it supports os (operating system) for mobile applications like ios, windows mobile and android. selenium supports a variety of programming languages through the use of drivers specific to each language.languages supported by selenium include c#, java, perl, php, python and ruby.currently, selenium web driver is most popular with java and c#. selenium test scripts can be coded in any of the supported programming languages and can be run directly in most modern web browsers. browsers supported by selenium include internet explorer, mozilla firefox, google chrome and safari. selenium can be used to automate functional tests and can be integrated with automation test tools such as maven, jenkins, & docker to achieve continuous testing. it can also be integrated with tools such as testng, & junit for managing test cases and generating reports. selenium index selenium selenium tutorial selenium basic terminology selenium features selenium limitations selenium vs qtp selenium tool suite selenium ide selenium ide ide-installation ide-features ide-first test case ide-login test ide-commands ide-creating test cases manually ide- locating strategies ide- locating by identifier ide- locating by id element ide- locating by name ide- locating by xpath ide- locating by css locating by id locating by class locating by attribute locating by id/class & attribute locating by sub-string locating by inner text ide- locating by dom selenium webdriver tutorial selenium webdriver webdriver-architecture webdriver-features webdriver vs rc webdriver-installation first test case webdriver commands running test on chrome running test on firefox running test on ie running test on safari locating strategies locating strategies by id locating strategies by name locating strategies by class name locating strategies by tag name locating strategies by link text locating strategies by partial link text locating strategies by css tag and id tag and class tag and attribute tag, class and attribute sub-string matches locating strategies by xpath using single slash using double slash using single attribute using multiple attribute using and using or using contains() using starts_with() using text() using last() handling drop-downs webdriver-drag and drop webdriver-handling alerts scrolling a web page webdriver - browser commands webdriver - navigation commands webdriver - webelement commands handling radio buttons handling checkbox selenium assertions selenium grid selenium python tutorial selenium python selenium c# tutorial selenium c# testng with selenium testng tutorial testng introduction testng installation features of testng running test cases testng xml file exclude/include test cases running test cases with regex testng groups testng annotations 1) @beforesuite 2) @aftersuite 3) @beforetest 4) @aftertest 5) @beforeclass 6) @afterclass 7) @beforemethod 8) @aftermethod 9) @beforegroups 10) @aftergroups annotation attributes testng parameters prerequisites before learning the concepts of selenium, you should have a basic understanding of java or any other object-oriented programming language. languages supported by selenium include c#, java, perl, php, python and ruby.currently, selenium webdriver is most popular with java and c#. so, if you know any of the languages then it won't be tough to understand the concepts of selenium. in addition, you should have prior knowledge of software testing techniques like automation testing, functional testing, etc. audience our selenium tutorial is designed for all beginners and advanced-level selenium users. next topicselenium basic terminology next ? for videos join our youtube channel: join now feedback send your feedback to [email protected] help others, please share learn latest tutorials splunk spss swagger transact-sql tumblr reactjs regex reinforcement learning r programming rxjs react native python design patterns python pillow python turtle keras preparation aptitude reasoning verbal ability interview questions company questions trending technologies artificial intelligence aws selenium cloud computing hadoop reactjs data science angular 7 blockchain git machine learning devops b.tech / mca dbms data structures daa operating system computer network compiler design computer organization discrete mathematics ethical hacking computer graphics software engineering web technology cyber security automata c programming c++ java .net python programs control system data mining data warehouse javatpoint services javatpoint offers too many high quality services. mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. website designing website development java development php development wordpress graphic designing logo digital marketing on page and off page seo ppc content development corporate training classroom and online training data entry training for college campus javatpoint offers college campus training on core java, advance java, .net, android, hadoop, php, web technology and python. please mail your requirement at [email protected] duration: 1 week to 2 week like/subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter learn tutorialslearn javalearn data structureslearn c programminglearn c++ tutoriallearn c# tutoriallearn php tutoriallearn html tutoriallearn javascript tutoriallearn jquery tutoriallearn spring tutorial our websitesjavatpoint.comhindi100.comlyricsia.comquoteperson.comjobandplacement.com our services website development android development website designing digital marketing summer training industrial training college campus training contact address: g-13, 2nd floor, sec-3 noida, up, 201301, india contact no: 0120-4256464, 9990449935contact us subscribe us privacy policysitemap about me ? copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. all rights reserved. developed by javatpoint.