soapui tutorial - javatpoint ? scroll to top home soapui software testing selenium appium jmeter junit postman jira testng uipath rpa qa selenium python interview q soapui tutorial soapui tutorial web services vs web api soap & rest web services download & install working with wsdl file create soap project in soapui tool soapui test structure response & logs pane soapui assertions soapui properties performance testing soapui load testing rest web service soapui security test soapui mock service soapui jdbc soapui groovy script operator using groovy script property transfer next ? soapui tutorial soapui is the world's leading open-source testing platform. it is the most widely used automation tool for testing web services and web apis of soap and rest interfaces. it is a boon for testers to test functional and non-functional testing, such as automated testing, functional, load testing, regression, simulation and mocking without hindrance because its user interface is very simple to use. it supports various standard protocols such as http, https, rest, amf, jdbc, soap, etc., that exchange information in structured data such as xml, plain text or json, etc. with the help of network services or web apis in a computer. why we use soapui? it is an important tool to test the web domain, and it is an open-source, cross-platform as well as language independent that supports eclipse, netbeans, and idea. it allows the testers to test functional, non-functional testing, performance testing, regression testing, compilation, and load testing on various web services and apis. soapui architecture following is the general architecture of the soapui. test config files: the test config files are the configuration files that include test data, database connection, variables, expected results and any other environmental setup or test specific details. selenium: it is a selenium jar that uses ui automation. groovy: groovy is a library that enables soapui to provide groovy as a scripting language to its users. third-party api: it is a third-party api that is used to create customized test automation frameworks. properties: these are the test requested properties files that are used to hold any dynamically generated data. the test property is also used in the configuration of ssl and other security configurations for test requests. soapui runner: it is used to run the soapui project. test report: a soapui generates a junit test style report and user reporting utility to report test results. soapui released a soapui is a cross-platform and language-independent which was first released by eviware in september 2005 at sourceforge, later acquired by smartbear in 2011. and when its first version release, it has been downloaded by 2000,000 times. the soapui software is a licensed software under the terms of a european union public license. it is purely based on the java platform that uses swing for the user interface, and it can run on most of the latest operating systems, including mac, linux and windows. furthermore, its cross-pltform behavior it supports eclipse, idea and netbeans. some protocols and technologies the following are the essential protocols and technologies used in the soapui. soap stands for simple object access protocol rest stands for representational state transfer wsdl stands for web services definition language http stands for hyper text transmission protocol https stands for hyper text transmission protocol secured amf stands for action message format jms stands for java messaging services jdbc stands for java database connectivity advantages of soapui it provides a simple and user-friendly graphical user interface (gui). cross-platform desktop-based application. it supports all standard protocols and technologies such as http, https, amf, jdbc, soap, wsdl, etc. soapui costs less than all other test tools available in the market. it is also used as message broadcasting. it provides a fast and well-organized framework that generates lots of web services tests. it creates mocks where testers can test real applications. it supports drag and drops features to access script development. transferring data from one response or source to different api calls without manual interaction in the soapui tool. it facilitates tester and developer teams to work together. soapui tool provides the facility to get data from various sources of web service without developing any code. disadvantages of soapui security testing requires enhancements. the mock response module should be more enhances and simplified. it takes longer to request big data and dual tasks to test web services. soapui testing the following are the different types of testing in soapui tools. 1. functional testing it is the powerful and innovative features that validate the functional or behavioral tests of web services and applications. let's discuss the features of the soapui supports as follows: it provides the user-defined scripts that can be customized as per the requirement of the testing. drag-drop: it supports drag and drops features to create and run the most complex test scenarios. multi environment support: it supports multi-environment to switch between various environments like qa, dev, and prod environment. test coverage: soapui allows testers to dynamically analyze how a soap or rest service is covered by functional testing. data driven testing: soapui allows the tester to debug and develop data-driven tests. load testing load testing is used to analyze the web service or web api's behavior based on specific tasks or load. generally, a load test is used in soapui to test performance assessments of web services such as load, stress, and endurance of all non-functional testing types. let's discuss the features of the soapui supports as follows: ease of use: using a simple user interface and handling the loadui agents of soapui tools makes load testing very easy and simple. loadui agents: soapui contains the number of loadui agents to analyze distribution and performance on various parameters. performance monitoring: a soapui has an efficient and advanced reporting system for collecting test results on various performance parameters for load testing. security testing security testing is an important tool that is used to ensure the authentication and authorization of web services and web api by using the request and response model in the soapui. let's discuss the features of the soapui supports as follows: cross-site scripting: a cross-site scripting is a security test that scans and detects potential risks on specific parameters in structured messages. security database: as the name suggests, the security database that detects and scans some potential sql injections may damage the database. stack overflow: it is used in the soapui web testing tool to scan and locate massive documents within xml messages that can cause a stack overflow. compliance testing a compliance testing consists of a source and data authentication license certificate and various service agreements to validate a web service or web api. furthermore, these data authentication certificates and test scripts call before and after compliance testing of a soapui tool to check if the last received message is associated with the wsdl or wadl schema definition. regression testing regression testing is functional testing used in the soapui tool to analyze the bugs or malfunctions of the web service. and it also reverifies the web service after new changes in the current release tools. in other words, we can say that it is the responsibility of a tester to execute the test suits and certify whether the existing functionalities are not breaking after the new changes to the soapui tools and its working fine with the tools. features of soapui the following are the essential features of soapui tool. it provides a simple and easy user interface for technical and non -technical person. it supports all standard protocols and technologies to test different apis and web services. it provides security or vulnerability testing of the system against malicious sql commands, boundary limitation scanning, or stack overflows. it allows own building plugin for the different open-source environment. soapui integration: soapui tools are integrated with popular building tools. apache ant: it is used to build projects and run test suites using the command line in soapui tools. hudson: it is a java-based tool, integrated with the soapui tool to quickly find bugs on every commit at the code's click from the development team. maven: it is a project management automation tool for creating only a java-based project. junit: it is a java-based unit testing framework that is integrated with the soapui tool to perform unit testing for web services and web apis. soapui version the following are the different versions of soapui since its initial release. version name release notes release date soapui 1.0 the initial release 2005/10/16 soapui 1.5 the loadtesting release 2006/04/06 soapui 1.6 the tools release 2006/11/12 soapui 1.7 the mock/ pro release 2007/04/10 soapui 2.0 the coverage release 2007/12/12 soapui 2.5 the rest release 2008/11/18 soapui 3.0 the reporting release 2009/07/09 soapui 3.5 the protocol release 2010/03/01 soapui 3.6 the loadui release 2010/09/14 soapui 4.0 the security release 2011/06/14 soapui 4.5 the big ears release 2012/03/28 soapui 5.2 major new features release 2015/07/02 soapui 5.3 soapui open source 2016/12/05 soapui 5.4 open source 2017/11/27 soapui 5.5 open source 2019/02/12 prerequisite before learning the soapui, you must have the basic knowledge of client/server environment and the soap, wsdl, rest, and the xml. audience our soapui tutorial is designed in a way that helps both beginners and professionals. problems we assure you that you will not face any problems in the soapui tutorial. but if there is any mistake, please post the problem in the contact form. next topicweb services vs web api next ? for videos join our youtube channel: join now feedback send your feedback to [email protected] help others, please share learn latest tutorials splunk spss swagger transact-sql tumblr reactjs regex reinforcement learning r programming rxjs react native python design patterns python pillow python turtle keras preparation aptitude reasoning verbal ability interview questions company questions trending technologies artificial intelligence aws selenium cloud computing hadoop reactjs data science angular 7 blockchain git machine learning devops b.tech / mca dbms data structures daa operating system computer network compiler design computer organization discrete mathematics ethical hacking computer graphics software engineering web technology cyber security automata c programming c++ java .net python programs control system data mining data warehouse javatpoint services javatpoint offers too many high quality services. mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. website designing website development java development php development wordpress graphic designing logo digital marketing on page and off page seo ppc content development corporate training classroom and online training data entry training for college campus javatpoint offers college campus training on core java, advance java, .net, android, hadoop, php, web technology and python. please mail your requirement at [email protected] duration: 1 week to 2 week like/subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter learn tutorialslearn javalearn data structureslearn c programminglearn c++ tutoriallearn c# tutoriallearn php tutoriallearn html tutoriallearn javascript tutoriallearn jquery tutoriallearn spring tutorial our websitesjavatpoint.comhindi100.comlyricsia.comquoteperson.comjobandplacement.com our services website development android development website designing digital marketing summer training industrial training college campus training contact address: g-13, 2nd floor, sec-3 noida, up, 201301, india contact no: 0120-4256464, 9990449935contact us subscribe us privacy policysitemap about me ? copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. all rights reserved. developed by javatpoint.