software engineering tutorial - javatpoint ? scroll to top home software testing software engineering compiler java coa computer network html css selenium servlet jsp jquery quiz projects interview q comment forum training software engineering tutorial software processes sdlc sdlc models requirement engineering models waterfall model rad model spiral model v-model incremental model agile model iterative model big-bang model prototype model software management project management activities project management tools software metrics software metrics size oriented metrics halstead's software metrics functional point (fp) analysis extended function point (efp) metrics data structure metrics information flow metrics cyclomatic complexity case tools for software metrics project planning software project planning software cost estimation cocomo model putnam resource allocation model risk management risk management risk management activities project scheduling personnel planning software requirement software requirement specifications requirements analysis data flow diagrams data dictionaries entity-relationship diagram s/w configuration software configuration management scm process software quality assurance project monitoring & control software quality software quality iso 9000 certification seicmm pcmm six sigma software design software design software design principles coupling and cohesion function oriented design object oriented design user interface design coding coding programming style structured programming software reliability software reliability software failure mechanisms software reliability measurement techniques software reliability metrics software fault tolerance s. reliability models software reliability models jelinski & moranda model basic execution time model goel-okumoto (go) model musa-okumoto logarithmic model software maintenance software maintenance causes of software maintenance problems software maintenance cost factors mcq software eng. mcq software testing software testing tutorial next ? software engineering tutorial software engineering tutorial delivers basic and advanced concepts of software engineering. software engineering tutorial is designed to help beginners and professionals both. software engineering provides a standard procedure to design and develop a software. our software engineering tutorial contains all the topics of software engineering like software engineering models, software development life cycle, requirement engineering, software design tools, software design strategies, software design levels, software project management, software management activities, software management tools, software testing levels, software testing approaches, quality assurance vs. quality control, manual testing, software maintenance, software re-engineering and software development tool such as case tool. what is software engineering? the term software engineering is the product of two words, software, and engineering. the software is a collection of integrated programs. software subsists of carefully-organized instructions and code written by developers on any of various particular computer languages. computer programs and related documentation such as requirements, design models and user manuals. engineering is the application of scientific and practical knowledge to invent, design, build, maintain, and improve frameworks, processes, etc. software engineering is an engineering branch related to the evolution of software product using well-defined scientific principles, techniques, and procedures. the result of software engineering is an effective and reliable software product. why is software engineering required? software engineering is required due to the following reasons: to manage large software for more scalability cost management to manage the dynamic nature of software for better quality management need of software engineering the necessity of software engineering appears because of a higher rate of progress in user requirements and the environment on which the program is working. huge programming: it is simpler to manufacture a wall than to a house or building, similarly, as the measure of programming become extensive engineering has to step to give it a scientific process. adaptability: if the software procedure were not based on scientific and engineering ideas, it would be simpler to re-create new software than to scale an existing one. cost: as the hardware industry has demonstrated its skills and huge manufacturing has let down the cost of computer and electronic hardware. but the cost of programming remains high if the proper process is not adapted. dynamic nature: the continually growing and adapting nature of programming hugely depends upon the environment in which the client works. if the quality of the software is continually changing, new upgrades need to be done in the existing one. quality management: better procedure of software development provides a better and quality software product. characteristics of a good software engineer the features that good software engineers should possess are as follows: exposure to systematic methods, i.e., familiarity with software engineering principles. good technical knowledge of the project range (domain knowledge). good programming abilities. good communication skills. these skills comprise of oral, written, and interpersonal skills. high motivation. sound knowledge of fundamentals of computer science. intelligence. ability to work in a team discipline, etc. importance of software engineering the importance of software engineering is as follows: reduces complexity: big software is always complicated and challenging to progress. software engineering has a great solution to reduce the complication of any project. software engineering divides big problems into various small issues. and then start solving each small issue one by one. all these small problems are solved independently to each other. to minimize software cost: software needs a lot of hardwork and software engineers are highly paid experts. a lot of manpower is required to develop software with a large number of codes. but in software engineering, programmers project everything and decrease all those things that are not needed. in turn, the cost for software productions becomes less as compared to any software that does not use software engineering method. to decrease time: anything that is not made according to the project always wastes time. and if you are making great software, then you may need to run many codes to get the definitive running code. this is a very time-consuming procedure, and if it is not well handled, then this can take a lot of time. so if you are making your software according to the software engineering method, then it will decrease a lot of time. handling big projects: big projects are not done in a couple of days, and they need lots of patience, planning, and management. and to invest six and seven months of any company, it requires heaps of planning, direction, testing, and maintenance. no one can say that he has given four months of a company to the task, and the project is still in its first stage. because the company has provided many resources to the plan and it should be completed. so to handle a big project without any problem, the company has to go for a software engineering method. reliable software: software should be secure, means if you have delivered the software, then it should work for at least its given time or subscription. and if any bugs come in the software, the company is responsible for solving all these bugs. because in software engineering, testing and maintenance are given, so there is no worry of its reliability. effectiveness: effectiveness comes if anything has made according to the standards. software standards are the big target of companies to make it more effective. so software becomes more effective in the act with the help of software engineering. software engineering tutorial index tutorial tutorial software processes sdlc sdlc models requirement engineering models waterfall model rad model spiral model v-model incremental model agile model iterative model big-bang model prototype model software management project management activities project management tools software metrics software metrics size oriented metrics halstead's software metrics functional point (fp) analysis extended function point (efp) metrics data structure metrics information flow metrics cyclomatic complexity case tools for software metrics project planning software project planning software cost estimation cocomo model putnam resource allocation model risk management risk management risk management activities project scheduling personnel planning software requirement software requirement specifications requirements analysis data flow diagrams data dictionaries entity-relationship diagram s/w configuration software configuration management scm process software quality assurance project monitoring & control software quality software quality iso 9000 certification seicmm pcmm six sigma software design software design software design principles coupling and cohesion function oriented design object oriented design user interface design coding coding programming style structured programming software reliability software reliability software failure mechanisms software reliability measurement techniques software reliability metrics software fault tolerance s. reliability models software reliability models jelinski & moranda model basic execution time model goel-okumoto (go) model musa-okumoto logarithmic model software maintenance software maintenance causes of software maintenance problems software maintenance cost factors prerequisite there is nothing prerequisite required for learning software engineering. audience this tutorial helps beginners and professionals for understanding software engineering. problems we assure you that you will not found any mistake in this tutorial, but if there is any mistake, please post in the comment section. next topicsoftware processes next ? for videos join our youtube channel: join now feedback send your feedback to [email protected] help others, please share learn latest tutorials splunk spss swagger transact-sql tumblr reactjs regex reinforcement learning r programming rxjs react native python design patterns python pillow python turtle keras preparation aptitude reasoning verbal ability interview questions company questions trending technologies artificial intelligence aws selenium cloud computing hadoop reactjs data science angular 7 blockchain git machine learning devops b.tech / mca dbms data structures daa operating system computer network compiler design computer organization discrete mathematics ethical hacking computer graphics software engineering web technology cyber security automata c programming c++ java .net python programs control system data mining data warehouse javatpoint services javatpoint offers too many high quality services. mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. website designing website development java development php development wordpress graphic designing logo digital marketing on page and off page seo ppc content development corporate training classroom and online training data entry training for college campus javatpoint offers college campus training on core java, advance java, .net, android, hadoop, php, web technology and python. please mail your requirement at [email protected] duration: 1 week to 2 week like/subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter learn tutorialslearn javalearn data structureslearn c programminglearn c++ tutoriallearn c# tutoriallearn php tutoriallearn html tutoriallearn javascript tutoriallearn jquery tutoriallearn spring tutorial our websitesjavatpoint.comhindi100.comlyricsia.comquoteperson.comjobandplacement.com our services website development android development website designing digital marketing summer training industrial training college campus training contact address: g-13, 2nd floor, sec-3 noida, up, 201301, india contact no: 0120-4256464, 9990449935contact us subscribe us privacy policysitemap about me ? copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. all rights reserved. developed by javatpoint.