spring cloud tutorial - javatpoint ? scroll to top home java spring cloud spring sql python android cloud javascript servlet struts2 quiz projects interview q comment forum training spring cloud tutorial spring cloud tutorial what is spring cloud spring cloud features spring cloud components main projects of spring cloud spring cloud vs spring boot microservices + cloud microservices tutorial advantages and disadvantages of microservices challenges of microservices architecture difference between msa and soa microservices monitoring and virtualization tool microservices components and standardizing port and url creating a simple microservice setting up spring cloud config server connect spring cloud config server to local git repository introduction to currency conversion and currency exchange service configure jpa and initialized data creating a jpa repository setting up currency conversion microservice invoking currency exchange microservice from currency conversion microservice using feign rest client for service invocation client side load balancing with ribbon eureka naming server connecting microservice to eureka distributing calls using eureka and ribbon introduction to api gateway zuul api gateway implementing zuul logging filter executing a request through zuul api gateway introduction to distributed tracing installing rabbitmq server distributed tracing with zipkin connecting microservices to zipkin understanding the need for spring cloud bus implementing spring cloud bus fault tolerance with hystrix next ? spring cloud tutorial spring cloud tutorial provides basic and advanced concepts of spring and spring boot framework. our spring cloud tutorial is designed for beginners and professionals both. spring cloud is a spring module that provides the rad (rapid application development) feature to the spring framework. we can quickly develop cloud-based allocation with the help of the spring cloud framework. spring cloud provides tools for developers to build some of the common patterns in distributed systems quickly. for example, configuration management, service discovery, circuit breakers, intelligent routing, micro-proxy, a control bus, one-time tokens, global locks, leadership election, distributed sessions, cluster state. our spring cloud tutorial includes all topics of spring cloud, such as features, components, and main projects. prerequisite before learning spring cloud, you must have the basic knowledge of spring and spring boot framework. audience our spring cloud tutorial is designed to help beginners and professionals. problems we assure that you will not find any problem with this spring cloud tutorial. but if there is any mistake, please post the problem in the contact form. next topicwhat is spring cloud next ? for videos join our youtube channel: join now feedback send your feedback to [email protected] help others, please share learn latest tutorials splunk spss swagger transact-sql tumblr reactjs regex reinforcement learning r programming rxjs react native python design patterns python pillow python turtle keras preparation aptitude reasoning verbal ability interview questions company questions trending technologies artificial intelligence aws selenium cloud computing hadoop reactjs data science angular 7 blockchain git machine learning devops b.tech / mca dbms data structures daa operating system computer network compiler design computer organization discrete mathematics ethical hacking computer graphics software engineering web technology cyber security automata c programming c++ java .net python programs control system data mining data warehouse javatpoint services javatpoint offers too many high quality services. mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. website designing website development java development php development wordpress graphic designing logo digital marketing on page and off page seo ppc content development corporate training classroom and online training data entry training for college campus javatpoint offers college campus training on core java, advance java, .net, android, hadoop, php, web technology and python. please mail your requirement at [email protected] duration: 1 week to 2 week like/subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter learn tutorialslearn javalearn data structureslearn c programminglearn c++ tutoriallearn c# tutoriallearn php tutoriallearn html tutoriallearn javascript tutoriallearn jquery tutoriallearn spring tutorial our websitesjavatpoint.comhindi100.comlyricsia.comquoteperson.comjobandplacement.com our services website development android development website designing digital marketing summer training industrial training college campus training contact address: g-13, 2nd floor, sec-3 noida, up, 201301, india contact no: 0120-4256464, 9990449935contact us subscribe us privacy policysitemap about me ? copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. all rights reserved. developed by javatpoint.