spss tutorial - javatpoint ? scroll to top home java spss javascript html css uipath ext js php jquery node.js sql android quiz projects interview q comment forum spss tutorial spss tutorial download & installation spss version 26 statistics about statistics parametric vs non-parametric spss enter data spss variables numeric variable type comma & dot variable scientific notation variable date variable dollar & custom currency sting variable values & labels column & alignment scale of measurement types of data file data transformation compute variable function find total using compute recode function recode into different variable recode into same variable descriptive statistics descriptive statistics types of descriptive statistics independent sample t-test define input options output of t-test paired sample t-test paired sample t-test calculate paired sample t-test output of paired sample t-test one-way anova one-way anova output of one-way anova one-way anova summary table linear regression linear regression input of linear regression output of linear regression summary table multiple regression multiple regression enter method stepwise method remove method chi-square test chi-square test assumptions calculation of chi-square test testing assumptions output of chi-square test reliability analysis reliability analysis types of reliability analysis internal consistency reliability about cronbach's alpha cronbach's alpha assumptions next ? spss tutorial this tutorial provides basic and advanced concepts of spss. our spss tutorial is designed for beginners and professionals. in this tutorial, we are going to learn how to write proper spss. the aim of spss is to provide statistical analysis. our spss tutorial includes all topics of spss, such as what is spss, spss statistics, parametric vs. non-parametric stats, spss variables, spss column and alignment, scale of measurement, spss data file types, spss compute variable function, data transformation, etc. spss introduction in this tutorial, we are going to understand how to run the data analysis technique in spss. spss stands for statistic package for social science, but the power and capability go beyond social science students. this tutorial gives us a background understanding and deep knowledge of spss. spss develops as a programming language, and it is designed to provide statistical analysis. spss is a complex and powerful application which have a graphical and syntactical interface. it is used to provide dozens of functions for managing, analyzing, and presenting data. the statistical capability of spss contains a range from simple percentages to complex analyses of the linear models, variances, and multiple regressions. we can range our data from binary variables to logarithmic variables. it provides us an extensive data management functions. in this tutorial, we will learn how to write the spss program, enter data in spss, data transformation, descriptive statistics, independent sample t-test, creating tables and charts, and exploring several functions for managing our data. in this course, we will see everything we need to know about spss. the first step of this course actually shows us how to design a questionnaire that suits the spss program. after that, we will go a step further into coding our data into spss. the important part of spss is how to choose the right statistical technique in spss. we break down the process of choosing the right statistical technique in spss by creating a flow chart and a statistical decision tree. based on the type of question we have, based on the type of variable (independent variable or dependent variable), and based on the measurement level, we will be able to choose the right test in spss. the treatment of data and the choice of the right statistical test depend upon the kind of measure we have taken for the variable. prerequisites before learning spss, you should have basic knowledge of basic computer functionality, basic mathematics, computer language, and logical operators. audience our spss tutorial is designed for beginners and professionals. problem we assure that you will not find any problem in this spss tutorial. but if there is any mistake, please post the problem in the contact form. next topicdownload & installation next ? for videos join our youtube channel: join now feedback send your feedback to [email protected] help others, please share learn latest tutorials splunk spss swagger transact-sql tumblr reactjs regex reinforcement learning r programming rxjs react native python design patterns python pillow python turtle keras preparation aptitude reasoning verbal ability interview questions company questions trending technologies artificial intelligence aws selenium cloud computing hadoop reactjs data science angular 7 blockchain git machine learning devops b.tech / mca dbms data structures daa operating system computer network compiler design computer organization discrete mathematics ethical hacking computer graphics software engineering web technology cyber security automata c programming c++ java .net python programs control system data mining data warehouse javatpoint services javatpoint offers too many high quality services. mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. website designing website development java development php development wordpress graphic designing logo digital marketing on page and off page seo ppc content development corporate training classroom and online training data entry training for college campus javatpoint offers college campus training on core java, advance java, .net, android, hadoop, php, web technology and python. please mail your requirement at [email protected] duration: 1 week to 2 week like/subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter learn tutorialslearn javalearn data structureslearn c programminglearn c++ tutoriallearn c# tutoriallearn php tutoriallearn html tutoriallearn javascript tutoriallearn jquery tutoriallearn spring tutorial our websitesjavatpoint.comhindi100.comlyricsia.comquoteperson.comjobandplacement.com our services website development android development website designing digital marketing summer training industrial training college campus training contact address: g-13, 2nd floor, sec-3 noida, up, 201301, india contact no: 0120-4256464, 9990449935contact us subscribe us privacy policysitemap about me ? copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. all rights reserved. developed by javatpoint.