t-sql tutorial - javatpoint ? scroll to top home java t-sql sql pl/sql sqlite mongodb cassandra mysql oracle couchdb elasticsearch neo4j c quiz projects interview q t-sql tutorial t-sql tutorial t-sql data types t-sql create table t-sql drop table t-sql insert statement t-sql select statement t-sql update statement t-sql delete statement t-sql where clause t-sql like clause t-sql order by clause t-sql group by clause t-sql pivot & unpivot t-sql distinct clause t-sql joins t-sql stored procedure t-sql sub-queries t-sql transaction t-sql indexes t-sql functions t-sql string functions t-sql date functions t-sql numeric function sql vs pl/sql vs t-sql next ? t-sql tutorial t-sql (transact sql) tutorial is designed for both beginners and professionals. t-sql expands the sql to include procedural programming, local variables, string processing, data processing, and mathematics. our tutorial provides the basic and advanced concept of t-sql. t-sql (transact-sql) is the extension of sql (structured query language) language. this tutorial covers the core concepts of t-sql. it covers various functions, procedures, indexes, and transactions, which are related to this topic. each topic is explained with the help of examples. what is t-sql? in the year the 1970s, the language 'sequel' (structured english query language), was developed by ibm. after some time, sequel was renamed to 'sql' which stands for structured query language. ansi approved sql in the year of 1986, and after that, in 1987, international standard organization (iso) authorized it. different rdbms vendors developed their database language to extending sql for their products. t-sql is known as transact structured query language, which is the product of microsoft. each variable, column, and expression in sql is the data type in sql server. the data types are used when we create tables. we use the data type for the column of the table based on its requirements. t-sql expands the sql to include procedural programming, local variables, string processing, data processing, and mathematics. the definition of transact- sql is the extension of normal sql. it performs the operations on the data from the single row retrieval. the syntax of t-sql is something different from another language. but it has the functionality which generates the same results as other database languages. the american national standards founded the sql server t-sql in 2014. comparison chart of sql and t-sql basis for comparison sql t-sql language non-procedural procedural feature open-source proprietary feature functions provided data manipulation and data controlling local variable and procedural programming language query submission of both one by one submission transfer in bulk the most popular t-sql statement is stored procedure, which is compiled and stored by the t-sql code. stored procedure are executed when they called. user-defined functions are the example of the transact-sql statement. restoring the database with transact-sql the triggers are used after triggers or in place of triggers. these applications can insert, delete, read, or update data stored in a database. common language runtime integration is a vital t-sql statement. since, the sql server 2005 is integrated with the .net. it enables us to use .net programming with the objects of sql. types of functions in t-sql: aggregate functions: it operates on any collection of values, but returns one value. ranking function: it returns a ranking value for partitioning every row. rowset functions: it is used as a table reference in the sql statement. scalar functions: it returns the unique value and operating the single one. in t-sql, sql server supports the analytics function to depict the analytical tasks. prerequisites to understand the t-sql language, you should be familiar with database concepts. the sql server must be installed on your computer, so it will assist you in executing the examples and you will know it's working. audience the tutorial is designed for those who want to learn the basics of transact-sql. the tutorial aims to describe all the transact sql functions and procedures. problem we assure you that you will not find any problem in this t-sql (transact-sql) tutorial. but if there is any mistake, post the problem in the contact form. next topicdata types t-sql next ? for videos join our youtube channel: join now feedback send your feedback to [email protected] help others, please share learn latest tutorials splunk spss swagger transact-sql tumblr reactjs regex reinforcement learning r programming rxjs react native python design patterns python pillow python turtle keras preparation aptitude reasoning verbal ability interview questions company questions trending technologies artificial intelligence aws selenium cloud computing hadoop reactjs data science angular 7 blockchain git machine learning devops b.tech / mca dbms data structures daa operating system computer network compiler design computer organization discrete mathematics ethical hacking computer graphics software engineering web technology cyber security automata c programming c++ java .net python programs control system data mining data warehouse javatpoint services javatpoint offers too many high quality services. mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. website designing website development java development php development wordpress graphic designing logo digital marketing on page and off page seo ppc content development corporate training classroom and online training data entry training for college campus javatpoint offers college campus training on core java, advance java, .net, android, hadoop, php, web technology and python. please mail your requirement at [email protected] duration: 1 week to 2 week like/subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter learn tutorialslearn javalearn data structureslearn c programminglearn c++ tutoriallearn c# tutoriallearn php tutoriallearn html tutoriallearn javascript tutoriallearn jquery tutoriallearn spring tutorial our websitesjavatpoint.comhindi100.comlyricsia.comquoteperson.comjobandplacement.com our services website development android development website designing digital marketing summer training industrial training college campus training contact address: g-13, 2nd floor, sec-3 noida, up, 201301, india contact no: 0120-4256464, 9990449935contact us subscribe us privacy policysitemap about me ? copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. all rights reserved. developed by javatpoint.