testng tutorial - javatpoint ? scroll to top home testng software testing selenium appium jmeter junit postman jira soapui uipath rpa qa selenium python interview q testng tutorial testng tutorial testng installation features of testng running test cases testng xml file exclude/include test cases running test cases with regex testng groups testng annotations 1) @beforesuite 2) @aftersuite 3) @beforetest 4) @aftertest 5) @beforeclass 6) @afterclass 7) @beforemethod 8) @aftermethod 9) @beforegroups 10) @aftergroups annotation attributes testng parameters testng listeners interview questions testng interview next ? testng tutorial testng tutorial provides basic and advanced concepts of testng framework. our testng tutorial is designed for beginners and professionals. testng is one of the most widely used open source testing framework used in automation testing suite. our testng tutorial includes all topics of a testing framework such as features, installation, running test cases, annotations, dependent test, parallel tests, before and after annotations, etc. what is testng testng is a very important framework when you are actually developing the framework from scratch level. testng provides you full control over the test cases and the execution of the test cases. due to this reason, testng is also known as a testing framework. cedric beust is the developer of a testng framework. if you want to run a test case a before that as a pre-request you need to run multiple test cases before you begin a test case a. you can set and map with the help of testng so that pre-request test cases run first and then only it will trigger a test case a. in such way, you can control the test cases. testng framework came after junit, and testng framework adds more powerful functionality and easier to use. it is an open source automated testng framework. in testng, ng stands for "next generation". testng framework eliminates the limitations of the older framework by providing more powerful and flexible test cases with help of easy annotations, grouping, sequencing and parametrizing. advantages of testng over junit in testng, annotations are easier to understand than junit. it produces the html reports for implementation. it also generates the logs. in testng, there is no constraint available such as @beforeclass and @afterclass which is present in junit. testng enables you to group the test cases easily which is not possible in junit. testng supports three additional levels such as @before/after suite, @before/aftertest, and before/aftergroup. testng does not extend any class. testng framework allows you to define the test cases where each test case is independent of other test cases. it allows you to run the test cases of a particular group. let's consider a scenario where we have created two groups such as 'smoke' and 'regression'. if you want to execute the test cases in a 'regression' group, then this can only be possible in the testng framework. parallel execution of test cases, i.e., running multiple test cases is only possible in the testng framework. prerequisite before learning testng, you should have a basic understanding of testing and java. audience our testng tutorial is designed to help beginners and professionals. problems we assure that you will not find any problem in this testng tutorial. but if there is any mistake, please post the problem in a contact form. next topictestng installation next ? for videos join our youtube channel: join now feedback send your feedback to [email protected] help others, please share learn latest tutorials splunk spss swagger transact-sql tumblr reactjs regex reinforcement learning r programming rxjs react native python design patterns python pillow python turtle keras preparation aptitude reasoning verbal ability interview questions company questions trending technologies artificial intelligence aws selenium cloud computing hadoop reactjs data science angular 7 blockchain git machine learning devops b.tech / mca dbms data structures daa operating system computer network compiler design computer organization discrete mathematics ethical hacking computer graphics software engineering web technology cyber security automata c programming c++ java .net python programs control system data mining data warehouse javatpoint services javatpoint offers too many high quality services. mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. website designing website development java development php development wordpress graphic designing logo digital marketing on page and off page seo ppc content development corporate training classroom and online training data entry training for college campus javatpoint offers college campus training on core java, advance java, .net, android, hadoop, php, web technology and python. please mail your requirement at [email protected] duration: 1 week to 2 week like/subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter learn tutorialslearn javalearn data structureslearn c programminglearn c++ tutoriallearn c# tutoriallearn php tutoriallearn html tutoriallearn javascript tutoriallearn jquery tutoriallearn spring tutorial our websitesjavatpoint.comhindi100.comlyricsia.comquoteperson.comjobandplacement.com our services website development android development website designing digital marketing summer training industrial training college campus training contact address: g-13, 2nd floor, sec-3 noida, up, 201301, india contact no: 0120-4256464, 9990449935contact us subscribe us privacy policysitemap about me ? copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. all rights reserved. developed by javatpoint.