verbal ability questions and answers - javatpoint ? scroll to top home verbal ability aptitude reasoning quiz programs projects interview q java jsp android design pattern c# html css jquery training verbal ability verbal ability spotting errors antonyms synonyms spellings selecting words sentence formation ordering of words sentence correction ordering of sentences paragraph formation closet test comprehension one word substitutes idioms and phrases change of voice change of speech verbal analogies articles prepositions adjectives next ? verbal ability verbal ability is an important section of most of the competitive exams. it contains different types of questions which are intended to judge abilities in word power, sentence correction, spotting-errors-2 and verbal reasoning. so, to score good marks in verbal ability, the candidates need to have a good vocabulary and a strong command of english like in-depth knowledge of grammar, adjectives, tenses, articles and more. let us see, understand and practice the most important verbal ability topics or chapters with most frequently asked verbal ability solved questions. table of contents spotting errors antonyms synonyms spellings selecting words sentence formation ordering of words sentence correction ordering of sentences paragraph formation closet test comprehension one word substitutes idioms and phrases change of voice change of speech verbal analogies articles prepositions adjectives 1) spotting errors 1) it is difficult for anyone to ran on a slippery surface no error show answer workspace answer: c explanation: 'ran' should be replaced with 'run', as 'to' is followed by the first form of a verb, e.g., it is difficult for anyone to run on a slippery surface. spotting errors spotting errors 2 spotting errors 3 spotting errors 4 spotting errors 5 spotting errors 6 spotting errors 7 spotting errors 8 spotting errors 9 spotting errors 10 spotting errors 11 spotting errors 12 spotting errors 13 spotting errors 14 spotting errors 15 spotting errors 16 spotting errors 17 spotting errors 18 spotting errors 19 spotting errors 20 2) antonyms 1) choose one of the following options that means the opposite of the given word; copious: reverse scarce abundant short show answer workspace answer: b explanation: copious means abundance or plentiful, so its antonym is scarce. antonyms antonyms 1 antonyms 2 antonyms 3 antonyms 4 antonyms 5 antonyms 6 antonyms 7 antonyms 8 antonyms 9 antonyms 10 antonyms 11 antonyms 12 antonyms 13 antonyms 14 antonyms 15 antonyms 16 antonyms 17 antonyms 18 antonyms 19 antonyms 20 3) synonyms 1) brief partial short limited little show answer workspace answer: b explanation: brief means short, concise, etc. synonyms synonyms 2 synonyms 3 synonyms 4 synonyms 5 synonyms 6 4) spellings 1) betterment efficiant employd trainad show answer workspace answer: a explanation: betterment spellings spellings 2 spellings 3 spellings 4 spellings 5 spellings 6 5) selecting words 1) she lived ____ the expectations. as per up to on at show answer workspace answer: b explanation: up to selecting words selecting words 2 selecting words 3 selecting words 4 selecting words 5 selecting words 6 6) spotting errors 1) 1.not 2.maria 3.run 4.did 5.away 24153 24135 21354 41235 show answer workspace answer: b explanation: maria did not run away sentence formation sentence formation 2 sentence formation 3 sentence formation 4 sentence formation 5 sentence formation 6 7) ordering of words 1) a month after colleges opened...... a. 35% seats reserved under obc b. in private colleges c. for the next academic year d. remain vacant cbda cadb adbc badc show answer workspace answer: b explanation: a month after colleges opened for the next academic year 35% seats reserved under obc remain vacant in private colleges. ordering of words ordering of words 2 ordering of words 3 ordering of words 4 ordering of words 5 ordering of words 6 8) sentence correction 1) he was very tired as he is working since 6 o' clock in the morning. he was working he had been working he has been working he will be working show answer workspace answer: c explanation: he was very tired as he has been working since 6 o' clock in the morning. sentence correction sentence correction 2 sentence correction 3 sentence correction 4 sentence correction 5 sentence correction 6 9) ordering of sentences 1) rishikesh is a beautiful hill station located beside the himalayas p: there are many ancient temples q: in the north of india r: along the banks of the sacred river the ganges s: that flows through the city. furthermore, the city is also known for many famous yoga ashrams. srpq qprs pqsr rspq show answer workspace answer: b explanation: rishikesh is a beautiful hill station located beside the himalayas in the north of india. there are many ancient temples along the banks of the sacred river ganges that flows through the city. furthermore, the city is also known for many famous yoga ashrams. ordering of sentences ordering of sentences 2 ordering of sentences 3 10) ordering of sentences 1) 1. maria reached office at 10 o' clock after sending the money. 2. maria's parents needed some money. 3. after that, she spent almost half an hour at the post office. 4. so, she went to bank to withdraw some money. 5. however, she had no money with her. which of the following should come third in the paragraph? 1 2 3 4 5 show answer workspace answer: d explanation: maria's parents needed some money. however, she had not money with her. so, she went to bank to withdraw some money. after that, she spent almost half an hour at the post office. maria reached office at 10 o' clock after sending the money. paragraph formation paragraph formation 2 paragraph formation 3 11) closet test 1) today, doing business is not easy for businessmen, as they are not used to competition. in the past they were selling whatever .....(1)......produced and at their desired price. but, 2... the competition has increased over the years, customers started to ....3.....and choose. imports have become.....4....available and that too at cheaper .......5........... 1. solve as per the direction given above he them it they show answer workspace answer: d 2. solve as per the direction given above with as when only show answer workspace answer: b 3. solve as per the direction given above pick select want take show answer workspace answer: a 4. solve as per the direction given above costly not easily hardly show answer workspace answer: c 5. solve as per the direction given above inputs costs profits prices show answer workspace answer: d closet test closet test 2 closet test 3 12) comprehension 1) harry who is a professional had a fearful dream. he found himself in a land where he saw some slug-like animals with tentacles living on human bodies. the people tolerated these creatures because after many years they would grow into bulls which then be used for transportation. harry noticed that he himself was covered with these creatures and he woke up screaming. question 1: in the dream, harry found the creatures in his office in a different land in his kitchen in a different planet show answer workspace answer: b question 2: what did the creatures look like? slug-like animals with horns insects with wings insects with tentacles slug-like animals with tentacles show answer workspace answer: d question 3: harry's dream was fearful because it brought him face to face with elephants he found himself on a land full of snakes he forgets the way home he saw creatures feeding on human bodies show answer workspace answer: d question 4: the creatures will grow into bulls which then will be used for digging hunting transportation flying show answer workspace answer: c question 5: harry woke up dancing screaming thinking singing show answer workspace answer: b comprehension comprehension 2 comprehension 3 13) one word substitutes 1) a person who travels on foot. pedestrian traveler walker health conscious show answer workspace answer: a explanation: pedestrian is a person who travels on foot, i.e., one who prefers to walk over traveling by a vehicle. one word substitutes one word substitutes 2 one word substitutes 3 one word substitutes 4 one word substitutes 5 one word substitutes 6 one word substitutes 7 one word substitutes 8 one word substitutes 9 one word substitutes 10 one word substitutes 11 14) idioms and phrases 1) to cry wolf to speak loudly to eat like a wolf to get afraid to give a false alarm show answer workspace answer: d explanation: tom cannot be trusted as he always cries wolf. idioms and phrases idioms and phrases 2 idioms and phrases 3 idioms and phrases 4 idioms and phrases 5 idioms and phrases 6 15) change of voice 1) her selection in the crew surprised peter. her selection in the crew was a big surprise. peter was surprised at her selection in the crew. her selection was a surprise. peter was surprised at her selection of the crew. show answer workspace answer: b change of voice 2 change of voice 3 change of voice 4 change of voice 5 change of voice 6 16) change of speech 1) they said, "we have lived in this city for many years." they said they have lived in this city for many years. they said that they had lived in this city for many years. they said they lived in this city for many years. they said they have been living in this city for many years. show answer workspace answer: b change of speech change of speech 2 change of speech 3 change of speech 4 change of speech 5 change of speech 6 17) verbal analogies 1) liquid: liter hot: cold weight: kilogram movie: entertainment winter: cold show answer workspace answer: b explanation: liter is the unit for measuring liquid. similarly, kilogram is the unit for measuring weight. verbal analogies verbal analogies 2 verbal analogies 3 verbal analogies 4 verbal analogies 5 verbal analogies 6 18) articles 1) ....... indus river is the longest river in india. the an a none of the above show answer workspace answer: a explanation: article 'the' is used before the names of rivers, mountains, etc. articles articles 2 articles 3 articles 4 articles 5 articles 6 articles 7 19) prepositions 1) they walked ....... the edge of the land. up to as far as either a or b until show answer workspace answer: c explanation: while talking about distance, both up to and as far as can be used. prepositions prepositions 2 prepositions 3 prepositions 4 prepositions 5 prepositions 6 prepositions 7 prepositions 8 prepositions 9 prepositions 10 20) adjectives 1) on looking at the cloudless sky, peter said, "it won't rain today." at cloudless sky today show answer workspace answer: b explanation: 'cloudless' is the adjective as it describes the noun 'sky' adjectives adjectives 2 adjectives 3 adjectives 4 adjectives 5 adjectives 6 next topicspotting errors next ? for videos join our youtube channel: join now feedback send your feedback to [email protected] help others, please share learn latest tutorials splunk spss swagger transact-sql tumblr reactjs regex reinforcement learning r programming rxjs react native python design patterns python pillow python turtle keras preparation aptitude reasoning verbal ability interview questions company questions trending technologies artificial intelligence aws selenium cloud computing hadoop reactjs data science angular 7 blockchain git machine learning devops b.tech / mca dbms data structures daa operating system computer network compiler design computer organization discrete mathematics ethical hacking computer graphics software engineering web technology cyber security automata c programming c++ java .net python programs control system data mining data warehouse javatpoint services javatpoint offers too many high quality services. mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. website designing website development java development php development wordpress graphic designing logo digital marketing on page and off page seo ppc content development corporate training classroom and online training data entry training for college campus javatpoint offers college campus training on core java, advance java, .net, android, hadoop, php, web technology and python. please mail your requirement at [email protected] duration: 1 week to 2 week like/subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter learn tutorialslearn javalearn data structureslearn c programminglearn c++ tutoriallearn c# tutoriallearn php tutoriallearn html tutoriallearn javascript tutoriallearn jquery tutoriallearn spring tutorial our websitesjavatpoint.comhindi100.comlyricsia.comquoteperson.comjobandplacement.com our services website development android development website designing digital marketing summer training industrial training college campus training contact address: g-13, 2nd floor, sec-3 noida, up, 201301, india contact no: 0120-4256464, 9990449935contact us subscribe us privacy policysitemap about me ? copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. all rights reserved. developed by javatpoint.